
--- Page 1 ---
“to4-torte-10«z7
i. Organization and activities of the
___ Deputy Director (Research) -_
ee aren)
Development Projects Division « special Projects Branch
LS -—- ee .
As recommended, the Special Projects Branch of DPD plus the
necossary supporting unita have been transferred-to DD/R. -
Technical Services Division
Further study did not commend implementation of the Working .
Group's recommendation that all TSD research and development be -
, placed under DD/R. The DD/P made a substantial argument in favor
of leaving all of TSD under his control in order to insure close and
intimate relations with the operating unite. Further, an argument of
almost overwhelming proportions indicated that the DD/R already had
: some very major respongibilities without taking on the diverse and
generally unrelated responsibilities of TSD. .
. f :
Other Research and Development
'
After considerable additional study it was decided to transfer all
ELINT to DD/R, except for the direct command of certain field units
which under all circumstances should be left under the station chiefs.
, Research and development in suppoxrt of NPIC would fall under DD/R
for those very advanced items, but not for current production require-
ments. | oo
og. .

--- Page 2 ---
14-0000 Va . .
. Part
Coordination , )
The staff of the Assistant for Coordination has continued to work
on the same basis as formerly and continues to be constituted of
assignees from other agencies. There appears to be progress in
, achieving closer inter-agency coordination, but whether this is due
_ to the work of the Coordination Staff or to the DCI's personal interest
in this subject would be hard to determine.
Princeton Consultants to ONE. :
- This group has been continued. So ,
National Photographic Interpretation Center . .
The Executive Director has personally kept under review the work-
load of NPIC. NPIC jis recruiting in anticipation of an increased work.
load.
| Caliber of Personnel ; )
The new DD/I is cognizant of this problem and is taking steps to Oo
improve the caliber of the personnel.
ee...
Merger of ONE and OCI ) .
: It has been decided not to merge these offices.
Preparation and Dissemination of Memoranda
Too many uncoordinated memoranda are still being circulated. )
The practice of asking other departments to prepare memoranda bas
not been adopted.
White House Relations
(This matter was handled orally by the Working Group and con-
sequently the comments will be handled similarly. }
- 9 - ; .
cCza f~.

--- Page 3 ---
14-00000 po °
L
. Research on International Communism
The DD/I has established & special staff under an experienced
intelligence officer for this purpose, and this staff ig getting gradually
organized.
Oifice of Scientific Intelligence
eS tel iigence
OSI is remaining under DD/I, but DD/R will eventually open hig
career service to those who wish to join it.
DD/R's Operational Responsibilities ) ) : ;
It has been firmly established that DD/R will operate those pro«
jecta which he develops. We believe that DD/R has implemented some
of the principles in the special annex of the Working Group report, .
~ 10 -

--- Page 4 ---
14-00000 . . ; <r a .
Organization and Activities of the
. Intelligence Community
,
National Indications Center - Watch Committee |
General Carter, the new Chairman of the Watch Committee, has
made a thorough review of its activities and NIC operations. Steps |
have been taken to sae that NIC is properly manned with the right
- personnel, and the Department of State is being constantly reminded
of its obligations in this regard. We also believe that the methods of
operations of the Watch Committee have now been aligned in accord- .
ance with the objectives of the Working Group. .
CIA Relations with the Department of State ) ) ,
Par nent of State .
__ Sifice the issuance of the. Working Group report, a special team
composed of a senior representative from the Agency and from the
Department of State have. studied:the ‘entire ‘problem of “cover." They
. have reached an'agreed formula for this cover and for correcting some
9f-the:problemia:that-attracted the'attention of the Working Group._This
inciidéaitherkorstguwServicandeaigniticn Sines ‘agreement has been
reached on tha handling of Stata tommunications. Since the production
re of the Working Group report the level on which COMINT policy is
handled in CIA has been raised to that of Aseis tant Deputy Director, .
: ; State's Counter Communism Office .
.
The proposal for the creation of such an office in the Department
of State appears to have come to naught, -
State's Operational Center
The State Operational Center also appears to have come to naught.
State at White House Briefings
ES Ouse Briefings
The Department of State does not attend the White House briefings.
Receipt of Top Classification Messages
. ee Son Messages
Tho DCI has taken up with the White House the necessity for being
included in the dissemination of alt top classification messages.
L. |

--- Page 5 ---
14-00000 RY aa Bb T
. ) 1. The or ganization of the DCI/DDCI's office is currently under study.
. 2. The Audit Staff is removed from the DD/S area and placed under
the Inspectcr General.
3. The Conipirotles is removed from the DD/S area, given greatly
expanued responsibilities, anu will report directly to the DCI/
; DDCI's office.
«. The General Counsel's office is removed from under the DD/S,
will resume responsibility for Congressional relations, and will
: report directly to the DCI/DDCI's office. ,
| mo 5. The Office of Cperations is disbanded. Contact Division to DD/P
as nucleus for Domestic Division. Foreign Documents Division
to be combined with OCR Library. Foreign Broadcast Information
, Division to be independent unit reporting directly to DD/I. ;
6. Position of Assistant DD/P for Covert Action abolished.
K .
_ . % Assistant DD/P for Paramilitary and Air Support Operations created.
» 8. Central Support Staff under DD/P created. This will draw together
such support as personnel, logistics and budget and will also take
over technical support from those operating units of TSD which
remain in the DD/P, e.g., secret writing, audio operations, etc.
The Central Support Staff will also absorb the present Operational
Services Staff and certain other activities.
9. A Special Task Force is created for such operations of a magnitude
that transcends the capabilities of one division.
1C. The International Organizations Division and Covert Action Staff
‘ are combined, putting together our largest activities in this field.
11. A Domestic Division is created. This will absorb as its nucleus
Contact Division of CO from the DD/I, the Commercial Staff, the
n Air Proprietary Branch from DPD, ultimately the management of
CAT from the DD/S, and those aspects of cover which involve
, contacts with the U.S. business community. :
12. A Deputy Director for Research is created. This or ganization will
take over the Cifice of Scientific Intelligence from the DD/I, Special
Projects ...:m DPD, all research and development from TSD, and
other research and development activities currently located in various
units of the Agency such as the Office of Communications, NPIC, etc.
° iS aff ET

--- Page 6 ---
| March 29, 1962
a MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD ,
SUBJECT: Notes on discussione between myself, Carter, Kirkpatrick
. Coyne and Schuyler in review of report of the Kirkpatrick
Committee
Following recommendations call for further consideration and
. possible modification.
oe I, Office of the DCI ye So ,
| 1. Page ll - Comptroller ; es woe | ”
) Terms of Reference of the Financial Policy and Budget
Committee under the Comptroller and the Executive Committee
. . &¢ provided hereafter must be clarified to provide continuing.
program review by a senior committee as par? of an orderly
| program and budget process. "4
2. : Office of Coordination,
’ —— .
Differences between Kirkpatrick and Schuyler position
as outlined in the report and Coyne's position should be
considered and reconciled. Page 3, Item C. Responsibility for
SIGINT policies and resulting international arrangements a3 a
responsibility of this office should be further considered. .
3. Public relations directive should be issued on policy of
speech making and public appearances by Agency employees,
. including DCI and the Deputies.
: 4. Page 6. Reduction of forces consideration should be given
with continuing 3-man management review committeg (such as
‘the Kirkpatrick Committee) exploring for the DCI and the DDCI
ways and means of eliminating duplication and consolidating
functions, eliminating unnecessary activities, with the objective
of developing better organization at lesser cost and with
fewer personnel.
) 5. 6, B. Terms of Reference for the Executive Director and
the selection of this man should be discussed between McCone
and Carter at an early date, ,

--- Page 7 ---
-f Wl. Office of DD/P .
™~ 1. Pave 9: Important to ™move on an Assistant DD/P for .
Paramilitary operations and air Support. There ig
coatinuing criticism of the Ageacy for lack of professionalism
in these activities, most particularly airborne,
2. Domestic Division. |
bertanereeeenee ete
. Care must be exercised and the merger of Contact
Division with tha balance of the Domeatic Division and .
also care must be exercised to be sure that the Domestie
Division "gathers up" all fragments of CIA's activities  ..
x dispersed throughout the United States with the exception
of Security Division, - ‘
3. Deputy Chief of the Diviston of British Commonwealth °
Definition of this office must be worked out to avoid
confusion with respect to small British areas such as Hong
. Kong, Singapore, British Guiana, ete. Tho purpose of
. this office probably to handle Commonweaith versus Colonial
. Office affairs.
4. CIA/State Relations, : |
Review of salary allowances, expense accounts,
living conditions, ete., of CLA agents under State cover
versus loreign Service Officers comparable conditions
should be made and if criticism legitimate, corrective
, mMeasures:should be taken without impairing abilitgestrtety
oP GtON to-handle special costly situations which might
beddno by svecific atthorization: Also audit and control
of personal expenses of COS must be developed immediately.
Dy. Cffice of DD/I
1. Carter and McCone should agree on selection of a DD/I,
Deputy DD/J and Chief of OCl as initial step in improving personnel
_ Within this office. .
. 2. Merger of O/NE and OCI should be delayed until new
DD/lis installed and makes hig recommendations, ‘ ;
, . -2. |

--- Page 8 ---
3. National Board of Estimates should be reviewed and
. improved where necessary and consideration given to formation
- of a special group within O/NE to analyze on a continuiag basis
objectives of Soviet/Jino Bloc, international communism and
their pursuit of their cold war activities and in their efforts to
oo, . establish world domination. Note: This office previously
a existed directly under DD/I but was abandoned a few months
- - ago,
; , 4. Proper Maison with finance, State Department, and
~ agreed methods for DCI to brief NSC as provided by law
should be worked out,
5. National Photographic Interpretation Center, Page 19.
Note this requires immediate study, possibly by USB.
, ' Fear that the work load on the NPIC will overwhelm it and asa
result it will be unable to process vast amount of information
- during months of May through September should be quickly studied
. and arrangements made through USIB to disperse read-out to SAC
. and Army St. Louis Center if doing so necessary to keep our
processing and read-out on a current basis. This matter
; considered of greatest importance.
IV. Elements of DD/R
1. It should be recognized that Deputy Director for
Research is a cover and this‘ office not necessarily confined
to research but should be tad xed with operationed responsibdi-
lities. Also most important project under DD/R is OXCART,
therefore DD/R must be restrained from taking on collateral
activities so fast that OXCART will suffer. The DD/R ,
responsibilities will cover all phases of Agency responsibility
and activity in NRO which may or may not include the actuai
operation of OXCART. It will include intelligence input into
OXCART and CORONA and SAMOS planning, irrespective of
where operations rest.
2. Location of OSI should be resolved. :
3. Interrelationship between DD/R and DD/P to provide )
staff support and particularly the CI production should be
established by directive of Deputy DCI.
-3.

--- Page 9 ---
, 4. With respect to pate 23, certain operational responaibi.
on lities should pass from D2O/2 to DD/P upon completion of
; research and development; however a study should be made to
. determine whether the many fully intesrated operational activities
. such as OXCART and some fully integrated ELINT operations
should not be permanently under DD/R who is to have both
Operational and research and development responsibilities, ;
Considerations of OXCART :
en ETN h . ;
_ 1. Responsibility for all phasea of OXCART are to follow
ios _ the direct supervision of Sec/Def and DCI by agreement with the ,
: OD, Charyk as AR/Sec.Def., will be executive head of NRO, DD/R
- or will be his Deputy and by assignment will be responsible for all
a phases of OXCART.
- 2. Details of Operations, as contrasted to R&D, will be
. worked out at a later date. .
. 3. NSC directive agreed OXCART tasks are responsibility
of Special Group and question of augmentation is a matter for Special
' Group, not CIA, to decide. | ,
+. 4. DD/R should be charged with the responsibility of
mobilizing and utilizing all necessary resources of DD/I, DD/P and |
. DD/S and General Counsel in performance of DD/R's assigned respon-
sibility as Deputy Director NRO and manager of OXCART project.
5. Question of uae of Air Force officers versus civilians
must be decided by higher authority, Llikewlse the question of operational
_ . responsibility between that of CLA or DD/R or personnel secanded from
the Air Force versus direct Air Force operation must be decided by DCI |
and Sec/Def. and the President after careful consideration of all {issues
and problems relating to this matter.
6. Because of imminence of commencement of test
flights immediate careful attention should be given to all aspects of
the cover story az certain information concerning the plane will
become known when it is observed in FAA (hat othex) radar
V. National Indications Center Watch Committee .
eee Sr atca Committee
1. Appointment should be made next week for General
Carter and myself to visit the NIC and the DIA Centera and
observe the Watch Committee operations and make a judgment
as to whether this organization is properly set up and
efficiently operating, and to rasolve differences between
i Mr. Coyne and USIB,

--- Page 10 ---
4 / , , = : sf
‘. | :
. 2. White House briefings should continue; a substitute
. for Mr. Amory should be arranged until a more adequate
, arrangement is provided: Daily briefings of Bundy, Clifton
. and Taylor and an occasional briefing of the President by
DCI should suffice.
JOHN A, McCONE :
: Director :
. 5. ,

--- Page 11 ---
. ? .
ion 6 April 1962
: MEMORANDUM FOR: Director of Central Intelligence
f
SUBJECT : Final Report of Working Group on Organization
and Activities
1. Ihave the honor to present herewith the final report of the ;
working group which you established in January to consult with you and
a advise on the organization and activities of the Central Intelligence
Agency, and of its relationship with other agencies in the intelligence
I community, This report reflects the views of the working group and is
Fg divided into two parts. The first part deals primarily with the organiza-
4 tion of the Central Intelligence Agency and reflects the unanimoua views
a of the working group. The second part contains comments and recom-
- mendations on areas dealing with the work of the Central Intelligence
Agency and activities of the intelligence community in which the working
group was either unable to agree or felt that considerably more study
was needed before action was taken. .
2. For the record I would note that the working group held its
first seasion on January 3 and met on 35 different days between that date
and its final session with you on March 28, During its work the group
had approximately 100 briefings. Most of these briefings dealt with the
organization and activities of the Central Intelligence Agency, but also
included a full day spent with the Department of State in addition to several
briefings on State Department activities and ite relations with CIA; approxi-
mately one-half day spent in the Pentagon in addition to other briefings
by the Defense Intelligence Agency; and a full week Spent visiting SAC,
NORAD and other activities in the United States. We were briefed by
the head of every major cornponent in the CIA with the excepticn of three
DD/*®P area divisions whose briefings had to be excluded because of the
pressure of time. However, we feel that having heard from four other
area divisions the working group hada knowledge of the activities and
problems of these units. In addition to the 106 briefings, the working
group had more than ten executive sessions in which it discussed and
debated at great length its findings and conclusions. Finally, there were
| arn tine fu A ey
( sx i
VyhtinNi.s 4
| | 17684

--- Page 12 ---
@
some 20 mectings with yourself, and with senior Agency Officials to
discuss our findings and conclusions. - These included at least two
7 fF sessions with each of the Deputy Directors and with the Assistant
. Director for National Estiraates and the Assistant Director for Cure
rent Intelligence, .
' 3, The attached report does not purport to be complete or ex-
haustive in any respect, but rather it is an aide memoir to recall to
\ mind our oral discussions and to record some of the reasons and
philosophy behind our recommendations,
“ . . Isyman B. Kirkpatrick a
' cc: DDCI . ,
| Attachment .
ee Dp le
ee ‘
a vols .
7 Ad\S= : |
: po\P
~2.-
| sicher
. : hon DA .

--- Page 13 ---
PARTI )
This section deals primarily with the Organization
of the Central Intelligence Agency and represents
" the view of the entire Working Group.
. a

--- Page 14 ---
! , OFFICE OF TES DCI
. Organization of Lol'e Orfice |
‘ Wwe recoinmend that the organization of the DCI's office be
| , changed in order to provide more effective support to the DCI, a /
- systernatized control of messages both oral and written, anda ’ ;
clear delineation of the responsibilities of the assistants to the v -
. DCL. In this connection we would urge that a secretariat be | y, D
, . created,- that the head of this secretariat assign individual re- be
sponsibilities to each of the personal assistants to the DCI, that J
daily staff meetings be held for a full exchange on the activities |
. f of the staff, and that all personnel in the Agency be advised as ,
to how to keep the DCI's staff informed Properly of the activities
; of the Agency. . -
; Comptroller ,
We recommend that the Comptroller's office be brought
) out from under the DD/S, report directly to the DCI's office and /
a receive full authority for fotal fiscal control of the Agency.
We recommend that the Comptroller be designated Chair-
maa of a Financial Policy and Budget Committee composed of j
the appropriate senior officers of the Agency. We believe that

--- Page 15 ---
such a committee should be kept fully and currently informed of
| : all Agency activities, and in order to be effective should meet c
regularly and submit its reports to tae DDC] and DCI, .
; . Inspector General
| | We recommend that the Audit Staff be combined with the
| staff of the Inspector General and that the merged staff report to v
| the DCI’s office. SO oe oe
| We believe that the size of the Inspector General Staff \
| should ba increased with qualified professional personnel assigned = do
, from their respective components in order to perform more ye,
ihe. , frequent inspections of Agency units. We urge ‘inspections af ( s& *"
: least annually of major operations and of field stations. / oa
| We recommend that the General Counsel's staff be /
| removed from the organization of the Deputy Director (Support) /
: , and report directly to the office of the DCI, In sucha position .
, the General Counsel should reaume the responsibility for the
| direction and guidance of the work of the Legislative Counsel, 4
| which is currently the responsibility of the Inspector General,
. ~-2. | . .
: oe eo

--- Page 16 ---
| . Cable Secretariat :

| We have examined the Cable Secretariat which is currently

| * located in the office of the DCI and reports to the Executive Officer, Va

| _ . We believe it should continue to be in the office of the Director under

. the careful supervision of the Executive Director, We are con-

cerned that as it now operates requirements for cables have not ,
been adequately coordinated, and cables have been disseminated
too often on the judgment of junior officers, We believe this needs ee?
careful study.

Contracts - | 7 - :

We believe that the Agency is vulnerable on sole-source <
contracts for auch activities as TSD and DPD, and that those qe.
| _- contracts currently in existence should be reviewed and that all * an ;
| | such future contracts should be passed on by the DCI's office i we
| prior to approval.

! Personnel Assignments

| We believe that the DDCI and DCI should be the final .

! approving authority for all assicnmenta to positions of Chief /
: or Deputy Chief of Offices (DD/2 Divisions and Staffs) or of

| field stations and bases, both foreign and domestic.

--- Page 17 ---
: . We believe the DCI's office should also review all asaign- We
Cc igo
| : ments in the middle management echelon with particular reference ¢
. .
| " to insuring the proper language qualifications, operational training
' and suitability. ,
Public Relations .
We recommend that the ‘present system of public relations )
by the Agency be changed. While we see the necessity for the ea
- ; DCI to have an assistant in his office handling relations with the i Aes
public media, we believe that every effort should be made to |
| minimize the amount of publicity that CIA receives. |
. We strongly recommend that the Present practice of .
giving background briefings to newspapermen cease and that : aq”
- CIA give information to the Press only where ClA has something sy.
which for operational reasons should be released on an unattri- -
butable basis, We urge that no public Speeches be given by :
, ) Agency officials. :
Reduction in Force ,
We recommend that the DCI and DDCI insure that the
present reduction in force in the Agency include senior officers, ,
particularly supergrades who are no longer aa effective as they /
should be in their assignments, .

--- Page 18 ---
We note that under present arrangements communications:
2 other than cables are handled by the Records Integration Division.
, of DD/P, which is not always fully cognizant of the interests of (“~ |
ky
non-DD/P parts of the Agency. We recommend that the entire | +e
system of handling incoming and Outgoing communications be do
. subjected to further study with & view to insuring adequate dis- | ' ,
semination of all communications, particularly in DD/J, DD/R '
and DD/S, which may have need for Prompt receipt of such J
, material. ' a |
. Executive Director : “ .
| We have not tried to spell out the responsibilities of the
. Executive Director, inasmuch as we believe this to be primarily |
| & matter that should be tailored to the personal preferences of nate
| the DCI and DDCI and how they wish to operate their office and whe
| ; the Agency. We urge, however, that Special attention be directed ! .
to the avoidance of a straight vertical line of commaad; i.e,, all : {
: - Problems should not have to pass through each of the three officers. :
) Executive Committee
; _ We recommend the creation of an Executive Committee )
to be chaired by the DDCI and consist of the four Deputies, the

--- Page 19 ---
14-00000 . : ,
Comptroller, and the Assistant to the DCI for Coordination and
/ Tatelligence Community Guidance. This Committee, from a
policy standpoint, would review proposed major projects and
maintain a continuous review of all major activities and make
Bppropriate recommendations thereon to the DCI. This Com-
mittee would replace the present Project Review Committee.
~ }
; “¢ 7
2 7
, cy!
a te tr

--- Page 20 ---
| : ORGANIZATION AND ACTIVITIES OF THE mt “ oo?
_ DEPUTY DIRECTOR (PLANS) my) a oe
. | Office of the DD/P
We commend the decision of the DD/P to abolish the position
of the A/DDP/A, and believe that the restoration of tha previous ;
organization with just the DD/P and COP in the line of command /
in the front office will result in a clear delineation of responsibili- , |
ties and more efficient operations, ,
: The Staffs a | ee
; We studied at some length the staffs in the DD/P. We con-
sidered a possible merger of the FI, Cl and CA staffs. We also
: studied proposals for divesting the staffs of all operational responsi-
bilities. We believe that while both are desirable objectives, neither
are practicable under present circumstances, We therefore urge .
that the FI, Cl and CA staff functions be drawn closer together
| under the Chief of Operations and that these organizations insofar -
as practical act in the classical sense as staffs for the DD/P. We
further believe that the Operational Services Staff, the Central Staff,
and the residual of the Cover and Commercial Staff, after the changes
recommended below are completed, be transferred to the Central
Support Staff which is proposed. ;
-~7 - |

--- Page 21 ---
iverger of Covert Action Staff ani International Organizations Division
: ° The DD/P hag advised us of his desire to merge the Covert
; . .
Action Stalf with the International Crganizations Division. While
| this is contrary to the trend of divesting staffs of operational duties,
! . we nevertheless do not observe any major reasona against such a
! merger and believe that it should be tried out in accordance with
| the DD/P's wishes. . oO . OT y
! | Central Support Staff ) oS '
| We recommend that the DD/P draw together into a Central .
t .
Support Staff control of personnel and other support matters cur- -
rently decentralized to the divisions and staffs in order to locate
a these functione directly under him. | -

Special Task Force Cperations ,

We recommend the creation of an organizational entity to °
be known as "Special Task Force Operations ® reporting directly
' to the DD/P, which shall be activated and deactivated upon need, —

and which shall be the command imechanisin for handling such _
, projects ag the Cuban operation which demands the creation of an

organization from Agency-wide assets.

-8- . .

a

--- Page 22 ---
i Assistant to DD/P for Paramilitary and Air Support Operations ; |
We recommend the creation of an office in the DD/P to be | )
! known as Paramilitary and Airy Supyort Operations, uncer the
t . .
| direction of an Assistant DD/P, to develop the capability for covert |
: , paramilitary and air support operations. We suggest that the bulk
| of this new organization be located at [ i 0 ) where it will have
| - | facilities for organization and training. Sucha move will also relieve -
| - the burden on the headquarters building. We recommend that the . 7
; | individual to head this organization be drawn from military service _ . .
, , and be a senior Colonel or a Brigadier General with wartime para- )
| - military experience. Having in mind the total disestablishment of”
| { the DPD in its present form, we recommend that the Air Support
" Branch of DPD be transferred to the new Paramilitary Office of DD/P.
‘Rae | Domestic Division - ) | e . . ,
We endorse the-proposal to create a Domestic Division. We )
° ' strongly urge that the new Domestic Division utilize the Contact |
Division of OO, which is to be transferred from the DD/I to the DD/P,
| as the nucleus for field work in the United States. We also believe
. - that this Domestic Division should take over those functions of the
Cover and Commercial Staff presently carried out by the Commercial.
Group, plus all those activities of the Cover Division which involve
-9- . 7
. , a pare - ,
eee

--- Page 23 ---
7 . contacts with domestic organizations in the United States such as | - - oO
, | | ' business and foundations. This would involve the transfer to this 7
, | . Domestic Division of the Air. Proprietaries Branch of DPD, and of |
oe ‘the responsibility for the management of CAT from the DD/S, and , .
| : | of managing Fairways Corporation. In consolidating CAT and Fair- : 7 .
| . ; ways into the Air Proprietaries Branch we wish to draw attention : - : |
l- to the necessity of having the right man to head this branch. ae 7 oS
We would also urge that a complete review be made of the ~ : ~
| ) Agency's present and future requirements for air proprietaries and |
} that a statement of the requirements be provided the Air Proprictaries
: Branch indicating exactly what may be needed in all parts of the world. |
{ With the création of the Domestic Division we urge that the DD/P a
| examine: the requirements levied by DD/P components on the Office
mass , of Security for operational suppost and if possible reassign these . 7
requirements to the Domestic Division in order to relieve the Office
of Security for its more important responsibilities in regard to the )
' security of CIA, : | en oo . oo
, oO Operational Aids Unit . ; ) - |
The DD/P should have a new unit charged with the following .
functions; - : /
- 10 - , .

--- Page 24 ---
. a. Residual TSD activities not transferred to DD/R.
/ b. Preparation of "operational characteristics" for new
or improved equipment desired to be developed by DD/R.
c. Close contact with DD/R activities involving develop-
. ment of items for DD/P. |
d. The conduct of rigorous field tests of these itema
before they are released to divisions for operational use. )
We recommend that all of the research and development responsi-
bilities currently in TSD be transferred to DD/R. Remaining units
in TSD should be transferred to the new DD/P division recommended
above; e.g., Audio Support less Research and Dévelopment, Photo-
| graphic Support less R & D, Special Assistance, Intelligence,
_ Personnel, Authentication, and Graphic Arts Reproduction. We
) note, however, that DD/P himself would prefer to retaia under his
; own responsibility the R & D function as it pertains to specific items ;
to be used by individual agents (audio devices, incendiary items, ate. ).
oo, Deputy Chief for British Commonwealth Affairs, Western European )
Division
We recommend the creation in the Western European
Division of a second Deputy Chief for British Commonwealth Affairs.
‘We suggest that this Deputy Chief-have as his line responsidilities
. , -1l

--- Page 25 ---
| all matters involving -_ 4 . ) ,
| 7]. Further, this officer should
have full control authority over . C }
and all other components of the Agency, including the DD/I, should
_ ; keep this officer advised ona daily basis C pe up oo,
: ; -3 . aO_ 1. | : : 7 .
: . .. War Plans ' oo
Becauge of the vital importance of war plans to the Agency's , |
relations to the Joint Chiefs of Staff, we recommend that the War
Plans Group receive direct support from the DDCI, even though it
| should remain organizationally as a part of the Central Support Staff ,
| . ofthe DD/P. . oo
- Police Programs
_ - . We are convinced that United States Government support to
a , . the police in friendly nations can provide great benefits to the
United States and that some of these benefits will assist CIA in its
: _work,. The President has recently indicated to AID that he wishes
this program to receive strong support. We believe that CIA should
-~12-
. iene
~ whale . :

--- Page 26 ---
| 7 give it greater support than it has previously received. We recom- _
: : mend that the police group in the CI Staff receive such augmentation
| I. as is necessary, and that Project L > | ) «
| 7] be transferred from the NE Division to the CI Staff. |
| | Liaison with Department of State | } | i
We urge that the DD/ P centralize liaison with the Department
) co , of State and maintain careful records of all discussions betiveen the.
Agency and State Department officials. We note that nearly every
! ) area division chief has a weekly meeting with his counterpart in the
Department but that under the present system there is no organized i
method for keeping the central management of the DD/P informed
0 of what takes place at these meetings. - | . |
aad _ _ Advice to State on Black Hropaganda . - |
We recommend that the DD/P develop procedures which will _ 7
insure that other appropriate agencies of the government (Department
a of State, ‘Defense, White House and USIA) are kept appropriately
7 , informed of black propaganda activities which otherwise might be )
misunderstood and believed to be legitimately the views of a foreign
| power, We have in mind our discussions with the Department which
heard expressed concern that ‘the Department was unaware of certain.
) black propaganda activities relating to Communist China and conse-
quently was led astray, .
; -13- |
Salat: faire
. . ett

--- Page 27 ---
i. 5 CIA Personnel Under State Cover , ‘ we |
il , , _ We recommend that CIA personnel under the Department of 7
| . , State cover make greater efforts to truly live their cover. We believe .
| in this connection that the DCI should receive assurances from the
DD/P, after proper study, that CIA allowances for rents, servants — .
- and entertainment are in line with comparable State Department |
: | allowances. - ; : , . oo. .
- "Legitimate" LC of lover , ; ) we ;
, f . ; We recommend that the Agency more and more place people _
. | . under L os _ cover by the "legitimate" method of recruiting '
| individuals, having them [L ; a ¢ 4
L and be C oes , a : and follow through a
! ‘normal L } e career. CIA should obviously keep C
Sa a 0o¢ d advised concerning these individuals, work with C )
| oF 2) on their assignments which will be mutually beneficial, -
: : | . and covertly train them. By. this method such individuals will be .
, under true C. o ¢ 4 cover and will not only be unknown to -
, other intelligence services, but also to their colleagues in Cc
7 OF 7, — |
7 | -~ 14 - Oo :

--- Page 28 ---
- , Latin American Cperations ,
We urge that the Agency give high priority to supporting 7
the expansion of activities of Latin America, and insure that the .
proper level of competence is assigned to these important posts. _
American Friends of the Middle East ; SO
We recommend that the project for support of the organization ;
- . : known as the American Friends of the Middle East, which is cur- :
) rently being run by the NE Division, be transferred to the IO Division
. _ inasmuch as it now transcends NE Division area responsibilities and . -
oo has activities in Africa, or, if it is determined that AFME activities
are not worth the Agency's support, that the project be abolished.
| . . ; , 7 . ;
| -15- :
; Chap

--- Page 29 ---
; ORGANIZATION AND ACTIVITIES OF THE ea
_ DEPUTY DIRECTOs (INTELLIGENCE) “Y Re
Office of the DD/I ) )
We have carefully reviewed the organization and activities
| , of the DD/I's immediate office and believe that with the addition
of a full time deputy he will be able to assert the degree of
. influence on the management of ‘the units under him required for
Ss sound operations. At present his three office assistants provide
. good ataft work in this review, but we did observe that a con- ; .
. | siderable amount of the intelligence produced in the DD/I area a
ia reviewed at no higher a level than office chief, if that, |
0 ‘ We recommend that the DD/I establish in his office a
focal point through which all intelligence, processed or unevaluated,
, going to the White House must flow. If for reasons of urgency a
report is sent to the White House prior to evaluation, we recom-
, mend that a special notice to the effect that it is unevaluated be . .
attached to the report and that an evaluation follow the report at :
. the earliest possible moment,
, Board of National Estimates
} The Office of National Estimates should be strengthened by
the addition of one top-level foreign affairs expert to the Board of
Estimates, and if obtainable a top-level scientist anda top-level
economist. We also believe that the Board would benefit by the
. | ) , =_1 om

--- Page 30 ---
addition of an individual experieaced in business in the lateraational
oO field, provided one of sufficient caliber could be found who would
be willing to spend two.or three years on the Board of Estimates.
Control of Estimates
We urge that the DCI utilize the USIB to control the /
scheduling and to limit the number of National Estimates.
| Office of Operations " |
We recommend that the Office of Operations be abolished,
. that the Contact Division be transferred to DD/P to be the nucleus -
of the Domestic Division, ) Ne .
‘The DD/I has advised ws that with the transfer of Contact
Division, Office of Operations, to the DD/P, he is considering
closer integration of the Foreign Documents Division andthe _
Foreign Broadcast Information Division. These units have a lot
in common: both process unclassified information, both have
considerable language capability. We believe such an integration
should be considered. On the other hand, the Assistant Director
for Central Keference believes very strongly that the Foreign
Documents Division should be assigned to OCR, He advances as
reasons: that the procurement of foreign documents are arranged
by OCR; that the dissemination of the FDD product is handled by
OCR; that OCR through its relations with the Library of Congress
. ; - 1 ;

--- Page 31 ---
7 ; . . . . ; .
_. and other agencies is in a good position to assist in coordinating — a
: the exploitation of foreign documents. We urge that the DD/I se
- integrate FDD and FBID into the most compatible area of the a
—_ DD/T organization. oe a )
os - . os ) oo A ae .
Support of Cenis >
re . Support for the Center for International Studies (CENIS) 2 ;
oo at MIT is currently being handled by the DD/P.. If such support. C
is worth continuing, and we question this, we recommend that a
7 - it be transferred to the DD/I's office, _ 7 Se
~18- :
rar .
SECRET |
t

--- Page 32 ---
. ORGANIZATION AND ACTIVITIES OF THE
- DEPUTY DIRECTOR (SUPPORT)
Security Office
We recommend that the burden on the Security Office for
support of the DD/P be reviewed (see DD/P section). In the
meantime, we believe that a careful look at the Security Office )
. is necessary to insure that the volume of work it is carrying
. is not in any way Jeopardizing ita primary responsibility of .
‘insuring that every‘possible measure is taken to keep the Agency _—
“ gecure. , . |
We recommend that all security clearances be centralized
i: under the Office of Security; ¢.g., clearances that are issued .
by DPD, OCI, NPIC, and other Agency components. While we /
} would leave the policy of granting clearances with the appropriate
, officials, we believe that the Office of Security should maiatain
a ceatralized index for special clearances and do all of the
proceasing of these clearances.
Audit Staff
We recommend that the Inspection and Audit Staff check
regularly on activities in the Tock Bed plant which are of vital ;
concern to the Agency. |
-~19- ; a

--- Page 33 ---
F | D?D Support
, - We recommend that the DD/S be given the responsibility for
-support to all projects under the control of DD/R, providiag of
course the necessary security safeguards, and that in the future ,
no parallel support mechanism be developed in the Agency.
Automatic Data Processing . .
- We helieve the Automatic Data Processing Steff can ,
| properly remain under the DD/S inasmuch as thie isa eupport
a mechanism, although we strongly recommend that the DD/S .
) in consultation with other deputies concerned direct this staff
= , to aggressively pursue the objective of automation in the Agency
| in such 8 way as to insure the ultimate compatability of auto-~
- matic data processing aystems throughout the intelligence
_ community.- . . i , .
ee ee

--- Page 34 ---
. ORGANIZATION AND ACTIVITIES OF THE.
- DEPUTY DIRECTOR (RESEARCH) |
. The Office of the Deputy Director (Research) having already
. _ been created, we now make the following recommendations as to
those units which should be included under this Deputy. .
a Development Projects Divivion ~ Special Projecte Branch . . .
, ; We recommend that the Special Projects Branch of DPD
, plue the necessary supporting elements, including those projects
, _ supporting the Department of Defense in advance reconnaissance oe
: : programs, be placed under DD/R. |
. ao! . Technical Services Division | , , ;
/ " .We recommend that all TSD research and development °
. be placed under DD/R, _  - |
' - Other Research and Development
oo We recommend that the extent to which research and
development for SIGINT collection equipment, including agents!
, . SIGINT equipment, air-borne collection, etc., should be transferred
to DD/R, be left as a matter for negotiation and agreement between
7 DD/I and the Director of Communications,
, We recommend all research and development in support of
NPIC be transferred to DD/R. ,
an . -~2l- _f

--- Page 35 ---
| ; Out!
°. bad .
. | my PART Il : |
| This section contains comments and recommendations On areas
,
| of the work of the Central Intelligence Agency and activities of the
intelligence community in which the working group was either unable
to agree, or felt that considerably more study was needed before
action is taken. These views are presented herewith so that they
. . may assist and guide those who may be asked to pursue these matters
further.
| = 22 =.

--- Page 36 ---
~ Coordination | |
- We note your intention to abolish the present office of the
Assistant for Coordination and to create in its stead an Assistant
to DCI for Coordination and Intelligence Community Guidance.
With the exception of Mr. Coyne, we are fully in accord. We set
. forth below our concept of the principal functions of this Assistant.
a. He should be the DCI's principal advisor on coordina-
tion matters within the community and his personal representative -
| in dealing on such matters with top officials of the community. |
b. When so directed he should represent the DCI in ' .
negotiations and discussions on intelligence mattérs with appropriate
officials of foreign governments.
_ €. He should be responsible for development of Comint .
and Elint policy insofar as this is an Agency function, ,
d. He should keep continually under review the general
extent and direction of the intelligence efforts of the community to
insure that such efforts fully and effectively support national policy,
submitting reports and recommendations to DCI as appropriate.
e. He should correspondingly maintain a continuing
review of activities and efforts of the Agency to insure that they
remain fully and effectively coordinated with the activities and
efforts of other members of the community.
- 23 -—

--- Page 37 ---
. . We do not consider it practicable at this time to suggest the
| 7 number or qualificaticns of supporting staff officers for this
| Assistant. We feel, however, that he will need a group of ouch
| officers and that they should be of particularly high caliber and
| broad experience. The functions we visualize for this office are
| highly important for the community and for CIA. They have not
been adequately handled in the past. The Assistant should be given :
whatever staff the full development of his role may later require. —~
| Mr. Coyne does not concur in this recommendation. He dis-
agrees with (a) the proposed organizational placement and title of
i | the recommended office, because this would perpetuate the present )
| 7 ineffective arrangement of the Coordination Office now in existence —
| and would not provide the recommended office with the stature required
,
3 ' to assist the DCI in fulfilling his heavy responsibilities throughout
| the Intelligence Community; (b) the limitations in the functional .
| concepts of the office, as outlined above. Further, he does not con~
| cur in this recommendation because it does not distinguish sufficiently
the internal CIA operating functions of the DDCI from the community-
: wide functions which the recommended office must perform if the
| DCI is to execute effectively his principal mission as assigned in
| the President's Directive of January 16, 1952, Mr. Coyne believes

--- Page 38 ---
that if the office is established along the lines recommended above,
_ it will be incapable of effectively assisting the DCI in performing .
his principal Presidentially-assigned responsibilities of (a) ) ;
coordinating and effectively guiding the total U. S, foreign intelli-
| gence effort; (b) establishing necessary policies and procedures to
assure adequate coordination of foreign intelligence activities at all
levels; (c) maintaining a continuing review, with the heads of the ;
_ . Departments and Agencies concerned, of the programs and activities
of all U. S. agencies engaged in foreign intelligence activities; and }

' (d) assuring efficiency and effectiveness, and avoiding undesirable ee
duplication in the total foreign intelligence effort. Mr. Coyne will .
submit his recommendations on this subject at a later date. :!

Princeton Consultants to ONE

: ‘Mr. Coyne recommends that.this group be disbanded based on
advice from principal concerned officers of the Agency that the group :

; makes no contribution to the intelligence estimating effort. The other
members feel that on balance the group should be continued.
National Photographic Interpretation Center
We are concerned about the capability of NPIC to handle what
may be a greatly increased volume of work in coming months. We
os. | .

--- Page 39 ---
; recommend that as a matter of priority the USIB have this matter
- reviewed and insure that any increased flow of raw material does ,
not result in slowing down the prompt and complete processing‘so
urgently required. a ,
Caliber of Personnel . |
Co We believe that the DD/I should devote some considerable
. | , effort to improving the caliber of personnel in his offices. Although )
- we did not make a study in depth, we believe that there is a serious Oe
, _ problem in this regard in OCI and that steps should be taken under
. . the new management of OCI to improve the caliber of supervisory a
. personnel and thus improve the morale of that office.
| Merger of ONE and OCI ,
, ; We studied at some length the feasibility of merging the Office
. of National Estimates with the Office of Current Intelligence. We
| | found the Office of Current Intelligence eager for a merger, the ,
Office of National Estimates strongly opposed, The DD/I was inclined
to favor it, but foresees certain personnel difficulties. We do not
believe that such a merger would be wise unless it waa well esta-
blished that the result would be the creation of better national estimates
and current intelligence dailies and weeklies, The DD/I feels that
- 26 - ,

--- Page 40 ---
he should be given at least sixty days to explore this proposal and
_- to prepare his recommendations. We concur. : |
Mr. Coyne does not agree with the above paragraph and in lieu
thereof recommends that the ONE and OCI be merged now. He
believes that such merger will result in improved intelligence
. products to support the national policy makers. ;
Preparation and Dis semination of Memoranda , ,
We have noted considerable unhappiness in the Department of ,
ot . State because ONE and OCI have established the practice of distri- |
buting throughout the community, and to the White House, uncoordinated
) memoranda on intelligence matters. These memoranda are prepared
as “think pieces", but the Department of State feela that they often
seem to influence policy at high levels. We think the Department
of State has a point, and we urge‘that such memoranda be carefully
restricted to circulation within the Agency unless or until they have
been coordinated across-the-board.
- ‘We also urge that the DCI adopt the practice of asking other |
agencies to prepare such memoranda if the subjects fall within the
purview of their responsibilities; e.g., the Department of State on
atrictly political matters. We believe that, ata minimum, when
, CIA is asked for a memorandum that inquiries should be made of
- 27 -

--- Page 41 ---
) other departments to determine whether such a memorandum hasn't
~~ already been prepared or might be in the process of preparation,
White House Relations
We are concerned about Agency relationships with the White
: House insofar as handling of intelligence matters is concerned, We
would like the opportunity to discuss this with you orally before | |
) ' ‘framing recommendations. , ) )
Research on International Communism
oo: We are concerned about the reported inadequacy of research
| : done on International Communism. At the present time some is
; C ~ done in the DD/I area in both OCI and ONE, some is done in the DD/P
, area in the International Communism Division of the Counter Intelli-
. gence Staff, and some is done in the State Department in the Special
«. .
Studies Group of INR. The DD/I expressed himself as believing .
this was sufficiently covered. The Chief, CI Staff believes it is
| insufficiently covered. Representatives of the Department of State
urged that greater expertise be brought to bear on the subject.
Inasmuch as it will fall squarely on the shoulders of the DCI if not
enough is being done, we urge that the matter be reviewed by the DCI
at an early date to satisfy himself that all necessary research in this
) field is ‘being accomplished. ) ,
- 28 -

--- Page 42 ---
Office of Scientific Intelligence oo
- On the new chart we have shown OSI as a division under DD/R
since we understand this to be‘ your desire. We feel, however, that
OSI in its major activities is more closely linked to DD/I than to
” DD/R and therefore more properly belongs under DD/I. DD/I himself
‘strongly supports this view and urges that he retain OSI. We believe
that if this is approved, scientists in OSI should be members of DD/R's :
career service, subject to transfer between OSI and units of DD/R as
might be agreed between the deputy directors concerned. ~ |
—_ DD/R's Operational Responsibilities - |
. | We have some concern relative to your intention to have DD/R
, carry into the operational phase his responsibility for certain major
projects involving complex and coordinated operations which are
) highly sensitive and where a mis;step could have serious national
| or international repercussions. DD/R's key people will be mostly
. scientists, technological experts or leaders in specialized develop-
ment fields. Such individuals on the average have no professional | |
intelligence operating experience and little background or interest
in detailed operational problems requiring thorough inter-agency
coordination, painstaking and tedious follow-up actions and careful
attention to security details. DD/P, on the other hand, has a number
- 29 - ,

--- Page 43 ---
) . of top-flight people who for some years have dealt almost exclusively
: with just such problems. ;
; We recognize all the difficulty, in the course of a project of this
type, of shifting responsibility from one deputy to the other; and we
realize that development must also lap over into the operational
phase. We suggest having as a general rule (but granting that excep-
- ; tions will arise) that when operation begins the responsibility for the ,
. oo operations should be the DD/P's, but that DD/R should retain his
} responsibility for seeing that the equipment he has developed continues
to function properly. There is here attached a specially claasified a
. _ annex, | “« ,
- 30 « ,

--- Page 44 ---
ORGANIZATION AND ACTIVITIES OF THE
- 8 INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY
National Indications Center - ‘/atch Committee |
, | We have examined quite carefully the National Indications
Center, its organization, its capacity to support fully the Watch
Committee, and its relations with other departments and agencies, ,
, We note that opinions within the community concerning NIC and its -
7 functions vary widely ~- from the feeling that it should be abolished,
or combined with DIA indications center -- to the belief that it is |
, entirely satisfactory in its present situation. We do not fully sub-
scribe to either of these views. “ .
1 The functions of the Watch Committee, and NIC, with their ;
terms of reference, were developed prior to the time when DIA was
7 created. Now DIA has developeda strong capability to provide both
early warning and indications of approaching crises to the community.
a Its capacity in this regard will develop even further in the months
ahead, ) a
We are aware that USIB is now considering the Fitch Committee
Report, But we doubt that few if any members of that Committee
were intimately aware of the full capacity of DIA and of its future
plans. We note that General Carroll was reluctant to be drawn into
| the Committee's deliberations, }
) Sa Bbe. |

--- Page 45 ---
We recommend, therefore, that except as noted below, NIC
- operations be allowed to continue as they are for the next three or .
four months, At that time we recommend a thorough review of the
Watch Committee and NIC operations, particularly in the light of
DIA's capabilities and activities, with a view to redefining the
responsibilities and functions of NIC as may then appear desirable.
Mr. Coyne disagrees and recommends that the NIC be abolished .
now, and that the DIA be assigned the national strategic warning a
| function and that its personnel complement be enlarged to include
representation from appropriate members of USIB. Mr. Coyne )
points to reasons outlined in his memorandum to the DCI dated
: February 5, 1962.
We do believe that the National Indications Center should be
_ properly manned and should receive both the high caliber of per-
sonnel at the proper grade and the number of personnel to perform
. its function promptly and efficiently. In this connection the Depart-
| ment of State has no representatives at NIC at present and the DCI
; should ask the Secretary to remedy this situation immediately.
We would suggest a change in the present method of preparing
the Watch Committee report. If NIC is adequately manned, we see
no reason why it should not draft, 24 hours in advance, the weekly
| , 2 32-

--- Page 46 ---
/ _ Watch Committee report, circulate it to all agencies for considera-  ~
, tion prior to discussion at the Watch Committee meeting when it ,
could be decided upon in final form and reproduced and disseminated. :
| Related to the Watch Committee -- but also an important aspect |
oO : ' of all coordinated intelligence community reports -- we believe that ,
substantive disagreements should be encouraged and even spelled
~ a ‘out in Watch Committee reports; that NIEs and SNIEs rather than | 7
Oo ) being suppressed or covered by watered down language as is some-
‘times the case today, in all cases should reflect the consensus of
_ views of the intelligence community. If there are differing minority .
views on the part of one or more agencies, including CIA, these
gy! should be spelled out in appropriates footnotes.
spats , CIA Relations with the Department of State
; We examined the relations of CIA with the Department of State.
oo Saveral matters of concern in this area are mentioned in the section
oO - on the DD/P, We would note that "covering" for the Agency poses
: certain problema for the Department in its relations with the Congress.
These include such items that attract Congressional interest as: -
the number of officers in each Embassy, particularly the political
section; the designation of CIA officers asl 24); the CIA role in
= 33 - |
TOIT es ,

--- Page 47 ---
oo 7 _ handling State communications, etc. In these areas we recommend 7 .
| , close liaison be maintained with State on Congressional matters and |
| that whenever possible State be given a helping hand with the appro- , :
priate Congressional committees on these matters. — on ,
| _ We are particularly concerned that the c 2 ? 2 designa-
. ° tions of CIA personnel C 2¥ J > particularly C3, are 20
o -* revealing, We recommend that the Agency arrange with State to _ e - .
; a , [- - o¢ 2 of J designations, . 7 -
: - The Department of State indicated concern about the level in oo
; | : CIA on which Comint policy matters are handled, and also. noted that Oo -
; , : . on occasions there appears to be lack of coordination within CIA on
‘ Comint policy matters. This factor is one. of the reasons why we 7 . }
recommend raising the level of Sigint policy matters to the Assistant ©
RES to the DCI for Coordination and Intelligence Community Guidance.
' State's Counter Communism Office _ . ; | } | Oo
an a We reviewed with some interest the proposed creation in the | |
| office of the Deputy Under Secretary for Political Affairs of the |
Department of State of a strategy group for combatting communism. ,
7 While the full scope of its function is as yet unclear, wa believe that -
CIA should follow the developments in this office closely as its )
. activities will have considerable bearing on the work of the Agency.
. . 3 4 ,

--- Page 48 ---
State's Overational Center |
~ 3 We reviewed with some interest the embryonic operational
center which the Department of State is developing. We found that
this is an interesting development and would obviously have bearing
on the intelligence community, ,
State at White House Briefings .

We recommend that in accordance with the present practice of -
| a representative of the Defense Intelligence Agency attending the |
a briefings of the White House staff by CIA, that a representative of

the Department of State algo be invited to attend these meetings. . }
. . a ; ,
Receipt of Top Classification Messages | a
'
_ We recommend that the DCI take up directly with the President
, _ the preblem of receiving all pertinent messagea dealing with foreign
affairs which might have any bearing on intelligence estimates or
reports, or on covert operations. We have particularly in mind .
. such communications as between the President and Khrushchev, etc,
) We believe that it is important for the DCI to see such messages in
order to give proper guidance to the intelligence and operational —
activities of the Agency. ,
. ~- 35 - ,

--- Page 49 ---
"on000 . THE WHITE HOUSE
WASH! NGTON
. April 3, 1962
MEMORANDUM FOR: Mr, Iyman B, Kirkpatrick
Inspector General
. Central Intelligence Agency
In the course of our discussions aS members of Mr, McCone!s
Working Group on Intelligence and in our March 28 meeting with
Messrs. McCone and Carter, f indicated that 1 did not concur
in the "Coordination" Section of the draft report which we
discussed with the DCI and the DDcr,
In line with the foregoing, it would be appreciated if
- you would;
1) Amend the Second sentence of the Section to read:
"With the exception of Mr, Coyne, we are fully in accord,"
_ 2) Add at the end of the section & new paragraph

; ' reading as follows;

, "Mr. Coyne does not concur in this recommenda-~
tion. He disagrees with (a) the Proposed
organizational Placement and title of the recommended
Office, because this would perpetuate the present

p ineffective arrangement of the Coordination Office
now in existence and would not Provide the recommended
Office with the Stature required to aSsist the DCI
in fulfilling his heavy responsibilities throughout .
the Intelligence Community ; (b) the limitations in
the functional concepts of the Office, ag outlined
above, Further, he does not concur in this recommenda-~
tion because 1t does not distinguish sufficiently
the internal CIA operating functions of the Dpcr
from the community-wide functions which the recommended
. Office must Perform if the DCI is to execute
effectively his principal mission as assigned in
the Presidentts Directive of January 16, 1962,
Mr. Coyne believes that if the Office is established
‘along the lines recommended above, it Will be in.

. capable of effectively assisting the DCI in berforming
his Principal Presidentially-assigned responsibilities
of (a) coordinating ana effectively guiding the tota}

U. S. foreign intelligence effort; (b) establishing
necessary Policies anq Procedures to assure adequate

, coordination of foreign intelligence activities at
all levels; (c} maintaining a continuing review,

--- Page 50 ---
. "with the heads of the Departments and Agencies
P ; concerned, of the programs and activities of all
U. S. agencies engaged in foreign intelligence
activities; and (d) assuring efficiency and
effectiveness, and avoiding undesirable duplication
. in the total foreign intelligence effort. Mr,
Coyne will submit his recommendations on this
subject at a later date,"
I would appreciate receiving a copy of the revised report
of the Working Group at your earliest convenience,
. . J. Patrick a
~2.

--- Page 51 ---
14-00000 aa .
papa ven cop BELERSE 1993. Ot 4.
. : _ APPROVED FOR RELEASE J 59 «= 23 October 1962 in
_ © GIAHISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM =“ tele
MEMORANDUM FOR: Director of Central Intelligence
SUBJECT: After Action Report on the Findings
. of the Working Group
This is with reference to the memorandum of 6 April |
- 1962 which presented you with the final report of the Working .
Group which you established in January to consult and advise
on the organization and activities of the Central Intelligence
Agency. This report indicates the action which has been ae
taken on the findings of the Working Group, and if no action =
has been taken the reasons therefor, The comments here
are in the same order ag they appeared in the report of the
Working Group. a
Lyman B, Kirkpatrick
. Executive Director
. Attachment
CC: DDCI
LBK:jre: Retyped gmk (23 Oct. 62)
Distribution:
Orig ~ Addressee w/att
1 ~ DDCI w/att
Ll - Exec. Dir. w/att
o—~——Eattre
. . ~ / 5 ST me oe

--- Page 52 ---
' Operational Aids Unit a 7 a
This recommendation was rendered inapplicable in view ‘of the
decision not to transfer TSD to DD/R. .
Deputy Chief for British Commonwealth Affairs, Western European
; Division | ,
oe As recommended, this position has been created and is now
. occupied by Mr. John Caswell: A review will shortly ba made to
: determine the degree of control that this unit has over liaison, ;
a War Plans oe 7 oO a _ oe
SO As recommended, the DDCI is giving full support to the War
Lo Plans Group, and is assisted in this effort by the Executive Director.
: oe Police Programs | a me , ~
. : . As recommended, CIA is giving the police pregram greater
x support. An Agency Officer heads the police program in AID, and |
. he has been provided an Executive Officer by the Agency. Project .
7 (ENDOMORPH)will be transferred to the Gl Staff. _ .
Liaison with the Department of State . . sO
= 7 The DD/P has centralized the control of liaison with the Depart- .
- ment of State and careful records are now maintained of all discussions, —~
Advice to State on Black Propaganda ) . , ; SO
a | ‘The Chief, CA Staff, is now charged with advising State, and
na _ other departments where appropriate, of any black propaganda activi- _
ties that might be misinterpreted by the U.S. Government if they were
-Presumed to be legitimately the statement of another government. __
CIA Personnel Under State Cover ; |
ee cer vtate Cover
- . The DD/P is making a thorough review of State cover directed }
toward insuring that CIA personnel are not out of line in their various
_ allowances with their State Department colleagues.
; “46 .

--- Page 53 ---
i , Assistant to DD/P for Paramilitary and Air Support Operations ; a .
, We recommend the creation of an office in the DD/P to be ' | ;
| known as Paramilitary and /ir Support Operations, under the a oo
| direction of an Assistant DD/P, to develop the capability for covert )
| ; paramilitary and air support operations. We suggest that the bulk 7
| of this new organization be located at Isolation where it will have i -
| - , facilities for organization and training. Sucha move will also relieve o
| a the burden on the headquarters building, We recommend that the o. =
; individual to head this organization be drawn from military service ' | -
, ; and be a senior Colonel ora Brigadier General with wartime para- oe °
l : military experience. Having in mind the total disestablishment of , '
: a the DPD in ita present form, we recommend that the Air Support |
: | Branch of DPD be transferred to the new Paramilitary Office of DD/P, ,
i _ Domestic Division = ss, a | os a - 7
) We endorse the proposal to create a Domestic Division. We - . - :
: : strongly urge that the new Domestic Division utilize the Contact - | -
oo Division of OO, which is to be transferred from the DD/I to the DD/P, 7 .
. | as the nucleus for field work in the United States. We also believe _
a that this Domestic Division should take over those functions of the . a
Cover and Commercial Staff presently carried out by the Commercial. , :
Group, plus all those activities of the Cover Division which involve |
STEN EERE ee

--- Page 54 ---
14-0000 - Wf ast iia ¢ ; : . .
| , all matters involving liaison with the British or with Canadian) ) oo,
| Australian and New Zealand intelligence services except matters | :
a, ( concerned with Sigint and Comsee, Further, this officer should .

have full control authority over liaison exchange of information a: -
( with the British and the above mentioned Commonwealth services,/
and all other components of the Agency, including the DD/I,should )
_ keep this officer advised ona daily basis ‘of liaison relations with >
the British services, a - a oo uO
i : .. War Plans . _ . , _
Becauge of the vital importance of war plans to the Agency's — :
relations to the Joint Chiefs of Staff, we recommend that the War :
) ‘Plane Group receive direct support from the DDCI, even though it me
should remain organizationally as a part of the Central Support Staff .
ahi Se a . . . i oe
of the DD/P. * a ce a
i Police Prog rams 7 a
_ ot, _ We are convinced that United States Government supportto __ _
. - _ | _ the police in friendly nations can provide great benefits to the
United States and that some of these benefits will assist CIA in its
_work,. The President has recently indicated to AID that he wishes.
. this program to receive strong support. We believe that CIA should
) - -12-
sO . bit or ht - . .
be Nn

--- Page 55 ---
| | give it greater support than it has previously received. We recom-
| . , mend that the police group in the CI Staff receive such augmentation .
as is necessary, and that Project ENDOMORPH (police training > , -
| ( achool)’be transferred from the NE Division to the CI State. } .
| , Liaison with Department of State | , a
, We urge that the DD/ P centralize liaison with the Department ne
ee of State and maintain careful records of all discussions between the | - | -
| Agency and State Department officials. We note that nearly every . a
| | | area division chief has a weekly meeting with his counterpart in the .
, Department but that under the present system there is no organized , | -
' method for keeping the central management of the DD/P informed ,
co of what takes place at these meetings. . ; , . . ot ;
sia : Advice to State on a Hropaganda | - a 7 : : : . ; a
. We recommend that the DD/P develop procedures which will _ /
, insure that other appropriate agencies of the government (Department | oo .
oe of State, ‘Defense, White House and USIA) are kept appropriately : - ,
7 . , informed of black propaganda activities which otherwise might be ; . :
misunderstood and believed to be legitimately the views of a foreign
| power, Ww e have in mind our discussions with the Department which
. heard expressed concern that ‘the Department was unaware of certain —
black propaganda activities relating to Communist China and conse-~ _
quently was led astray. | ;
; -13- 7 _

--- Page 56 ---
: | - . . CIA Personnel Under State Cover. | , 7 re -
i ; We recommend that CIA personnel under the Department of oe
) . State cover make greater efforts to truly live their cover. We. believe.
| in this connection that the DCI should receive assurances from the
: DD/P, aiter proper study, that CIA allowances for rents, servants } a
+ . and entertainment are in line with comparable State Department oo
. a allowances. He 7 a eo ee
- "Legitimate" Foreign Service! Cover , . . Le: : 7 :
f a | We recommend that the Agency more and more place people ) So
- | under Foreign Service cover by the "legitimate"' method of recruiting 7 -
! | | ; individuals, having them take and pass the Foreiin Service exams ” .
a 7 and be ¢ommissioned in the Foreign Service and foliow througha |
| ‘normal Foreign Service/career. CIA should obviously keep the ?
St oe (Department advised concerning these individuals, work with'the / )
\ Department’ on their assignments which will be mutually beneficial, - ;
: oo and covertly train them. By this method such individuals will be oe
' under true Foreign Service’cover and will not only be unknown to ,
. other intelligence services, but also to their colleagues in'the ~ a
| - dae Oo
. ne

--- Page 57 ---
. 7 _ Watch Committee report, circulate it to all agencies for considera- © -
| tion prior to discussion at the Watch Committee meeting when it ,
, could be decided upon in final form and reproduced and disseminated. |
. - Related to the Watch Committee -- but also an important aspect | )
oe . ' of all coordinated intelligence community reports -- we believe that .
oe 7 substantive disagreements should be encouraged and even spelled , 7
ee , ‘out in Watch Committee reports; that NIEs and SNIEs rather than | ; - "
a a being suppressed or covered by watered down language as is some- -
times the case today, in all cases should reflect the consensus of, . 7 7
. _ views of the intelligence community. If there are differing minority i
- views on the part of one or more agencies, including CIA, these - |
i ; Bhould be spelled out in appropriate footnotes. — - ; ,
a , SIA Relations with the Department of State / ne ,
ee ; We examined the relations of CIA with the Department of State. - |
) oO Saveral matters of concern in this area are mentioned in the section So |
- : . / on the DD/P, We would note that "covering" for the Agency poses —_ :
c certain problems for the Department in its relations with the Congress. ,
_ These include such items that attract Congressional interest as: , ,
- the number of officers in each Embassy, particularly the political ,
section; the designation of CIA officers as(FSRa; the CIA role in | }
"4 3B | OO 7

--- Page 58 ---
) a - handling State communications, etc. In these areas we recommend
- close liaison be maintained with State on Congressional matters and | ;
that whenever possible State be given a helping hand with the appro- a .
priate Congressional committees on, these matters. oe ;
| . We are particularly concerned that the Foreign Servicd designa- ,
; ) tions of CLA personnel (under State cover) particularly SR, are 20 ; :
_ a Lo revealing, We recommend that the Agency arrange with State to. . - ad
; : = cover CLA personnel equally with ¥SS and FSOsdesignations. . . “ -
: - The Department of State indicated concern about the level in oe
; Z : - CIA on which Comint policy matters are handled, and also noted that - - a
, . on occasions there appears to be lack of coordination within CIA on oe
( , Comint policy matters. This factor is one. of the reasons why we : | , .
recommend raising the level of Sigint policy matters to the Assistant . 7
SRS a _ to the DCI for Coordination and Intelligence Community Guidance. oo , , ;
7 State's Counter Communism Office —_ . ; | ) | :
ae _ We reviewed with some interest the proposed creation inthe ; - 7
oe _ office of the Deputy Under Secretary for Political Affairs of the } i - -
. _ Department of State of a strategy group for combatting communism. , -
a While the full scope of its function is as yet unclear, wa believe that oo
CIA should follow the developments in thie office closely as its a
. activities will have considerable bearing on the work of the Agency. ,
CEB EE ,
