
--- Page 1 ---
ee en ead , ‘
nr eicies © Sa © |
. , SEGRET 20 October 1976 .
, i . _ RETURNTO-CIA . .
_- ob - _ Background Use Only -
Mr. (Comet t Me Steele,) President |...  -.DoNotReproduce .. a
| | (fntermational Art Associates, gd.) ee oe
Dear Mr, Gteela,) © ne ce ee
_.  . . .., This document is intended to confirm discussions held between
; yourself, representing Gaternational Art Associates, Ltdj, hereinafter
referred to as the "Company'’ and Mr.. John J. Murray, Jr., representing
the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA)... If it conforms to your -
; understanding of the agreement reached, kindly so acknowledge by
signing below, = 8 § ©
oa You have agreed on behalf of the Company to assist CIA
by placing on retainer Mr. Richard T. Gibson at an annual. fee of
$9,900 ver annum. | Thin feo will ha paid to Mr. Gibson by the
Conpany in monthly increments of $750 each. The Company will ;
overtly negotiate a retainér contract with Mr. Gibson, which will
make eminently clear that both are negotiating and concluding the ~
contract a3 independent parties; that..the Conpany will have no.
obligation to withhold Federal, state or Social Security income
, 2. In consideration of the support rendered, CIA will pay )
. the Company a fee of $10,000 per annum..: Provision is made in this
anount to offset any nominal expenses the firm incure in its overt
associations or support of Mr. Gibson. , oO
’ 3. era wil reimburse the Company in quarterly incrementa
_ via & contrived contractual arrangement between the Company and
. @ netional facility of CIA. Cancelled checks will serve as .
adequate accounting for monies paid the Company.
" + ***4.- Because of CIA's ‘interest in Ne. Gibson, it is requested
that the Company neither offer Mr. Gibson bona. Fide employment nor
accept any proposal of employment from him without prior consent
of CIA for a period of two (2) years following termination of this ; ;
. agreement,
E2IMPDET .

--- Page 2 ---
~~" So, . eebncl — -
5. All information relating to this Agreement 1s classified
secret. Both CIA and the Company agree that the most stringent
safeguerds will be taken to protect this information, including
the existence of the agreement. Any information in any form that
_ must be given to e third party by either CIA or the Company will ,
- - >  .-be done in strict conformance with the laws safeguarding national .
security information, and only with full consultation between CIA
and the Company... -- = me ;
6&.. This agreenent is effective 1 October 1976 and shall remain
-in full effect for an indefinite period, subject to cancellation
at any time upon sixty (60) days’ notice by either party thereto. ;
7 . The CIA wishes to express its appreciation for the manner
in which you have received this request to perform a service oe
related to the national security of the United States and for — .
yous personal attention thecetc. =. . ed
a op ag CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
a . oc: “ Special Contracting Officer
. (international Art Associates, Ltd. ) ce .
(Emmett M, Steele,) President ; Date ;
