
--- Page 1 ---
RS ‘ and resultant limited time available for Committee matters. . |.
Sake] plus other. factors, it might be possible to handcarry a
es . selected KCIA documents to the SSCI for reading by: .- | °°. ”
AES _ Mr. Kramer. This office objected on the grounds of ‘the - -
yak . sensitivity of the material, the ground rules established — ..
ges for the Congressional (and DOJ) review of this material Ce
Soa _ by staffers and the problems which could be. caused. by: ..
=a - exceptional treatment being afforded.to one Committee or- =| 7
ae - staffer. Mr. George Cary provided the compromise solution. - ©
See which is acceptable to all parties, to wit, that Mr. Garbler
BESS . invite Mr. Kramer to the Agency for lunch after which time
PEER he would review the requested material in the Headquarters _
esi - building. (ESVidal) © - . .
ee 4. MEETING OF SSCI STAFFER AND DDO: At Mr. Hal. |
Rorae Ford's request a luncheon meeting: with Mr. William Wells ;
ree -has: been scheduled, for 26 October. Mr. Ford is researching ~
es ‘material fer-a study on China reporting and wishes to
= discuss this subject. with Mr. Wells due to his extensive
Sse background .and experience in East Asian affairs. ‘(ESVidal)_ -
FS 5. ASSASSTNATIONS COMMITTEE: Counsel.G. Robert Blakey
Lk 7 met with DO,. DDA/Security and OLC representatives to ;
ae determine how he might frame his requirements to best meet... |.
oo ‘our capabilitics. ‘His efforts appear to be aimed at the -
a possible CIA role with the Mafia, and a double Mafia role
7 with Castro. He has information which implies that
on Trafficante was playing both sides. The IG, particularly
ea } Scott Breckenridge, has responsibility for the Bill Harvey
vee association and the.analysis of- the Schweiker report.
coe Blakey has agreed that.DO will concentrate initially on
7 i the Bayo-Pawley affair and the "Soviet Defector" cover -
operation. Non identified informants have told him that
og Col. "Rep" Robertson was involved. His queries. are
oe logical, manageable, and, if we can keep his requests to
pares oo, specific people or events, we should be able to respond
Raed to his requirements. (It would be, in our opinion, an ©
se excellent idea for the ADDO to meet informally with Blakey
ee over a luncheon. This would be useful in givinpg Blakey a
OES picture of JMWAVE, but also it would perhaps’ give Blakey
2 ; a perspective on his.own terms of reference. (JDWalker) . °
wey 6. LITIGATTON/HORMAN v SECRETARY OF STATE, ET AL, ;
a . ~ (JAMES FE. ANDENSOND. COS, COSTA ticay) He prepared a reply
a ; to Anderson and sufeested he indicate to the Department
a, that he would accept the routine officer of Department of
oe Justice legal representation as a government official in
the Horman family suit. |. So
6
me ONG
MERE TS WRENN rr EBS Sa a
