
--- Page 1 ---
‘od“foar2"ioz4s) (2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 |
eo 7 : ‘ : o™ . pyran ce — | ) . :
24 April 1970 mo
MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD , Te
SUBJECT: Meeting With (wwstaB/1) on 22 April 1970 _
l. Arrangements and Security: The meeting took place
; in the fofficetisafehouse] at 1400 on the above date and ended Do,
at 1500. There were no incidents of a security nature. (ios
a 2. Production: Bolivian Ambassador Julio Sanjines Bess
.& Goytia talked on the phone to president Ovando on 20 April. re
Ovando said that there was pressure from the civilian members y:
~ of the cabinet on the Debray case. They related their request i.
Sj that Debray should be released. to a letter Ovando wrote the. oo
a Italian novelist Alberto Moravia which they claimed stated :
“es he would release Debray. Ovando commented to Sanjines that. ,
S he had not committed himself to release Debray. The civilians pas
te think that the release of Debray and Bustos would take the —
i) pressure off the government. Ovando admitted that the govern-
~ ment could not control the students. The Minister of Education oO
had been destroyed when the USIS installation was damaged.
4 Ovando commented that he would reconsider the Debray situation
\ and commented that there were no legal precedents for Debray's
a release. The military will go along with it if Ovando and -
y ™M the cabinet will put down the union members if needed. Marcelo oo
5 Quiroga still claims to be able to influence a segment of the eee
- x mineworkers. Ovando'does not want to suppress by force the Sones
3 2. student demonstrations. Ovando indicated that there is a wave Se
ot of uneasiness in the country. He is thinking about taking a mo
stronger hand in certain issues and compromise on other issues. pe
 3.. Minister of Planning Jose Ortiz Mercado is coming to a
Washington on 2 May for a four day visit before he -goes, to ; ae
San Jose for the inauguration of Pepe Figueres. (wostan/1] a
believes that Ortiz will be [frank¥with him), and téll him what eo
the situation is like back in La Paz. He will attend the loge
(ciarSreview/ of the Bolivian program. , : ise
' 4, Sanjines described the Rogelio Miranda Baldivia =
problem (Miranda is the Army Chief of Staff in Bolivia) as pes
a personal matter which has now become ideological. He does to
not get along with General Juan Jose Torres, the Commander of co.
the Armed Forces. Miranda is now trying to change some te
‘commanders in field commands. ne . wart We uae dh a
| Backgrouny He Chan Soe sie |
© Not Reproduce 2 E sstede ten stematles og
. PART 5 1 bagitdes Bevis sateen ee
ee CR COND Y [se

--- Page 2 ---
14-00000
a aN VA Pe S as | , .
“ . ee 2 . Lat
sO os
5. I- asked some clarifying questions on the OAS report Rane
‘ of a possible demonstration against the OAS Assembly in Santo ce
Domingo in June 1970. He said that Rolz-Bennett normally
maintains contact with the OAS Deputy Secretary General
- Urquia, who is a close personal friend and is also a Central-
American. The head of the UNDP office in Santo Domingo is
Hugo Navegas. He has been asked to get the information on .
the possibility of such a disruption. | -
6. Victor Paz Estenssoro, is one of three experts picked
up under an OAS contract with the University of Engineering
in Lima. In actuality, Paz will receive a P-4 salary from e.
the OAS. The project is up for board approval and will last ee
at least a year. SS
7. (WusLaB/1]went on at length on the difficulties between os
Miss Alexander, the former Bolivian ambassador to the OAS whose
parents were murdered in La Paz, and Sanjines. In brief, Miss me
Alexander was accompanied to Washington by a catholic priest |
Father Eduardo. Sanjines offered to find him lodging ina
' Washington monastery, but he demurred. Whenever Sanjines
- called Miss Alexander during crises in Bolivia at early morning ies
hours the father would answer the phone. He also helped with “—
Miss Alexander's work at the OAS and was around the Embassy
office. Sanjines once found them doing some research in his ,
files. Colonel Banzer, when assigned to Washington, said
that there was an intelligence report that Father Eduardo co,
had been involved with the guerrillas. The military finally .
forced the father to leave the Embassy. Miss Alexander sent ,
him $100 on which to live. When her parents were killed he oe,
reappeared... When Miss Alexander returned to La Paz she read ree
a written report submitted by Sanjines on her affair with , ee
the priest, and when she came back to Washington she called Bess
. up Sanjines.and told him off. te
: 8. Sanjines said that his relations with the State wale
Department have cooled off. He thinks that the nationaliza- oe
' tion of Gulf Oil has weakened the government. There is a MIS,
vacuum in Bolivia and this has.caused the present Bolivian ee
government to be much more subservient to the United States pe
than was the government of Rene Barrientos. He believes, ieee
however, that his own position with the Bolivian government . Pee
had been strengthened. Sanjines is going to San Jose for =
the presidential inauguration. He heard from Colonel Ayoroa ae
‘that Victor Paz Estenssoro as a personal friend of Figueres, BPS
had also been invited to the inauguration. Sanjines said CO
that it would be interesting to talk to Paz. . oe
9. I asked (WUSLAB/1/it there were any recent develop- pe
ents betweenf his assistant] and the Soviet Embassy. During c :
SrA y oS

--- Page 3 ---
14-00000 -
a Bb «Bee
. {nis absence Mr. Peary, his assistant], received a telephone Ee
call from KUTAKOV, the Soviet Under-Secretary, who asked
that [Peary/send directly to him Congressional reports on ,
Chemical Warfare, USSR-US cultural exchanges, hearings on
the United Nat ons These documents are being sent to
KUTAKOV. [wo LAB/1}/ remarked thatgthe Soviets are always
interested in the finformation aSSistants in his office/ oo
and never, the office%director). They were interested in a
[Manton, TtRompson and Peary} a
10. , Plans: The next, meeting will be on 28 April at ae
1400. [WUSLAB/1/g0es tofBattimorejon 29 April to have his Lee
FLOYD B. MCCULLY |
i. pepper cine ene nepapefe a
. s 1 somite bed: S as
