
--- Page 1 ---
. “ x — om -
ipneukd [Dee (1H Agora i prioibnng er slerd) .
nn ae onc Laoag sow RETURN TO GIA
“Ne Jarege teat ae 7 Background Use Onky
Subject advised that Aline’ MOSBY waz a newspaperman in SCHAPIRO'#0 Not Reproduce -
office. MULBY, durin: the vast year, tad been in the hospital on several |
occasions, and one dicn't see too mich of her. Subjeot also acvised that —_—
HOSBY stuck mostly to the foreign circuit rather than the Rnbassy oircult. |
Subjoct stated that one of the reasons HOSBY was in the hospital, on one an
occasion, was the fact. that she had an abortion, according to gossip. |
a J Subject stated that another nowspaperwomen in Moscow was_Priscilla | a
JOHNSON. Subject advised that JOHNSON had the reputation of being a Tairly :
Foot reporter and one whom the Soviets kept on a month to month visa bssia, ‘
Subject indicated that it was highly-poseible the Soviets had attenupted to |
recruit JOHNSON, as she spent a lot of time with Soviet nationals. a i ie
subject. was queried as to whether he had ever made an unauthorized | g th
disclosure of classified information in the' Soviet Union, to which he re- . | ae
plied that he had not disclosed classified information as sugh. He stated
that his cover, which he had used for the period in between| State Depart~ 79 } .
ment} issignments, was that he was a fconsultent of the AEO, particularly 2y ‘ §
to tne Joint Atomic nnergy Intelligence Committee; composed of AHC, CLA,
State, NSA, Joint Chiefs, and the Armed Services. | Subject stated that he _&£
had indfoatead to individuals, when questioned, at he had done economic : &
research ami enalysis in tha Soviet field and that he had done this ever : _ tt
since he nad first become a[itat ¢ Department }dnployes. Subject stated that,
, amonr others, he had discussed this wi th fay HUTCHINS, his counterpart in —
I the (British linbaaey) : voseme  OOIOS 7
Subject was asked for his itinerary on his roturn trip to the United
States and who authorized the trip. Subject stated that he had long planned ‘ .
tis come home via the Far Kast, and it was a well publicized plan, lie stated
that when ho left Moscow, he stayed over in Delhi for a week to soa if there i
were any objections from Headquarters as to hie itinerary, Ho stated that | ae
when he reoe! ved no instructions to the contrary, he returned to the United |
Stules via his previously announced plans ard the differences in fares being
home bo hin. ge ;
Subject departed Nogcow 1 September 1960 (1200 A,li.)3 wont to Tashkent
wed then to oelhd uhere he spent one weeks Banrkok, 4 days; Saigon, 6 dayoys. —_—
lone You, © cayss Tokyo, 5 days; Hawaii, 5 daysy San Francisco, 5 days; -
Lor ameloe, 2? days; Los Vegas, 2 dayss Denver, 10. days3 arrived Washington °
Oh eunher 1°40. : ; . a
