
--- Page 1 ---
13 AAA AY ~ .
| 2025 RELEASE :
: . UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 | *
Can . , . : : ; : .
7 wo Loom ‘ id
, RETURNTOCIA ~*~ |
on : .
a . Background Use Only - - ?
( Do Not Reproduce _ |
i vu. Rei Oe KEE DISPATCH BO. HB AG t
i nny 22
i i a ee ‘ .
ane itera SR: .
| CLASSE ON
TT Spiel, TRA (2-72 DATE _
7 FROM Senior deprosentative, New Delhd
y
. ‘ ‘ GENERAL tional/ INTEL
‘ SUBIECT - Operation /
; specic «= CPAYILIPFER - Pransoittai of Reporte
§ oe
é 2. Prenawitted herewith are copies of THER LAVLT ropert$e and notes
pa listed below, Hot ineluded ara carbon copies cf the initial report
d (plans undated) and the report covering the period 28 Decesber - 14 January
} as the third copy was not cade, .
A 2, @HERIAUL? requested that, if possible, a set of hie report be
. #- made available to his on his return to facilitate preparetion of a easter
f roport on overall findings and darpr ace tons. L
u Phonas ¥, UIED ~
! Eaclesures Under soparata cover
: (Pouched 7 Hay 1955)
: “44 Jan - 23 Jaa vim 7 wer
a ; 25 Jan ~ 30 Jaa i 8 Bor - 16 ar
a 30 Jaa ~ 8 Feb v18 Kar ~ 30 Mar
i “FJ Vad ~ L7¥od Interviow with’ U5. TAGs | *
? 18 Fob (1 yp) uo apr ~ 12 apr” ."
< 20 Fed ~ & Har Hote book
: re
y > a ‘) 2
Diatribotion: Coan ties beaperte WE Z
Orig & 4 = Kye Mpg 2 8 OSFEF =
. 9 Kay 55 2 - Filee bear Foldu # 3 é.
y oY . ey : kei
i oo So bee Ea)
S Qieotince 7 2
i £27 Fh, 51-28 A - . A
} woe - )

--- Page 2 ---
14-00000 Se . . a a Te
a . .e « . . . i oo . ’ . 4
‘a! coe : . - .
a 4 i. Frtor te my departure Tor ‘ee York to handle the preliminary
a | debriefing cf THERIATLT, I discussed the feliowing subjecta witb CibA=5:
bat 1) In view of the fact that THERIAYLT's expenses on her recent
eo ‘rip te Tmlia have been greater than was anticipated, .1,000
ag aijitional funds have or are tc te shortly deposited tc her bank.
Be This will be done by sterile check. It {1s to be accounted for
aa inder the terms of the criginal crentract. .
Bae. ’
in| .
as | 2} CNRA-5 sugpested thet ° whe per reports up with me for
Mae: j vesaible annetation and expansion. /“!pon exarination on 14 May,
we this uvpears unfeasible in view of the fuct that there are CIA
[a= corra indicators and R! symbols attached directly te the reports,/
can 35 CNEA-5 suriested thet © pursue with THEKIAULT the
rit nossibtiity of developing an interest in Krishna Menon, utilizing
a a cleared publisher who could request Menon te write a book. This
pe eo a preach to be based on Menon's acute sueceptability to flattery. .
S} 4) CNEA-5 supcested that TIER IAULT be asked to review the
as areas of her inflvence in order to lay the groundwork for an
a official invitation te visit this country being extended to tle
ca “stee ““niater in the future. Ue suggested Sen. George and
- Chester Rowles og possirie points of departure. ~
q £ 5} THEPTATLT is to be informed that her reports have been
pF. sf ipnensurable assistance te the Ambassador end to the U.S. ,
a Gevernrent vis-s-vic voliey zlanning for India.
: m : . 6) THERIAULT is to be asked tz come to Washington for a day
‘ “ or se in the very near future for further debriefing. This is
Le te be arranged at her convenience. ed
. a 7) In view of the fact that THENIAULT has been unvitting rx
a of the Agency's role in sponsoring her trip, I suggested that I 3S:
2 ae new make ner witting in terns of the security involved. It 2.
fn seemed advisable to me since it is likely that there will be ae /
iz. future contacts with THIFRIAULT, CNEA-5 agreed to this. &/
pee 2) THERIA'LT ig to be advised that she is at liberty to af
ao digeuss any and all aspects of her trip with anybody with the =/
ae e: ception of the Agency's role in sponsoring it. OZ. ee
RS 7
= iP fER ES
a Peroved from Projec PAF L So.
oF cs Clapetfipa eR ONG oe
Ey SECRET roa # bb- 66 “2 >
Ee , roe a 5 _ Foldu _ ; ai

--- Page 3 ---
ey * . - ” - aa ~ i
i ary ne fT Se em Em at, Pree aise RISA IE: a GPCRS RECS WIE BROT TR :
5 ; . OEE aT

a

ot

) o} In view of the vast amount of work that must be done,

Aa " sygested that 7 plan to spend two days - 16 and 17 May -

B ‘¢ {t hecemes necessary. <n previous trips to discuss

aA TENIATLT's mizsion wit! her, I found that she frequently

ty “ad other commitments which made it difficult to cover

a adeynetely the material which 1 had amassed. If this ia the

‘ . case on this trip, ~% should prefer not to press her. One

#4] dav's latitude seems the better part cf wisdom. CNLA5

. agreed, We shall see, however.

4 1c} Tn the event that it becomes necessary to reach me,

a nm, surcest that wife be asked tc get in touch with me,

3 06 (sckson 77018) and that T be asked simply to call ny

4 office, Twill then call on the sterile phone. For the 3 ,

i record, my telephone number ‘n Hew York is G@ELHAM 825302) 0

i SR: Stam Cooper a

7 . 93

; .

fo .

a . . ao:
: :
if &
s S
- . : : , Ey

| SEGREI oe
. "Reach PS PB eben cE tn faites SQA AG SSE Tk Ty OH oh Tin Tapa aca F shel SSE PET NR BERTIE,

foo

--- Page 4 ---
. Joneral Coxnents. Ti draplere |
3. I beve no. talued wath aany Ford Foundation .eopi@ and sang
TG peopie. 4. Laoreseed by thease qualdty. They ofO worasey
; hrrd and are doing &t in a oolfmcffooing zanner. J have not heard
one criticdsm of tea froa enyvodze Thero are a fog Gxds, of cour
f I hove not yet not thea. They cr “here "to help Ind’a easay ous
ber projcota and her ddeas® na one put it. and they seca te Ga
; GS not only derocretionsly but with a very real wargth end
syip.thy «= yet they otrey quietly in the background sad teke none
of the oddte But J foal nore. brongey onan woek J on hore
t thet the works 48 eoldd and 43 having Srmenfously gesd effest in
\ rolieving tension end hostility between the two countrico. The
resuite of the p@tuad work Are apparent now and hope hea recently
increased anong Indiens; »sleo their cam self-confidense, When
confidenae ineren: o8, eensitiveness decrerses, of courses
2, Froa ail IJ hove picsed up, the feoling 4a widesprond that
tmbreandor slLlen did » good job out here. ss one put At, The
wai axeetly right for the period he was hereg just as Bowl ¢3
wee right for the special probles3 of his tuo yeasra.®
Both Indian and s.isriesus highly raise both aca.
£¥ .
id 3. “@ hove a prize in Evelyn Heresy and so.agkody gho thank God
3 avery night that ehe da hero. she and. Dys"end neo Diner oFe
tho n0e braved tuericsen3 in north India, corteinly.
“velyn Hereey ig “inown throughout India, Shoe vag Sobial Weifere
} Se ntt.eho nt tho tnb-say beginning I thins in 1843. The only cao
oN attached to any cabr aay anywhere, I understond, Her tors ees
pX to interpret the cociad ch: nges taking place fn IndSag to bessaa
7 Q nware of the needs ang probienas and kou these neegs nnd probiens
ety were boing aety »-néd to offer her servaccs end her experiensa
aL 2 whenever or wherever dt ues vnsked for. i{pea the adainistratica
[3 chngedy uhs uno diezisced ty*Republigan bd the grounds that this
rN) wre a nea Sdeay nobody eleso had ever done such a thing, that is
(is S. # nu other foreign sorvigs snd so why should the U.Scedem 4b Hr.
A ae Azlents urgent insiotenas, che was sent baesk, this tise undies
' PES the »ogia of Tai- She is, however, doing the sano jobs. Eer
, BROA iufivenge ig very wide; che do sdaoired end loved by literaliz
; gw eg thou: -nde of Indians froa the high echolons dowa to the eueqera
ate ano -ther herdjans. whe do called on for e: vice 49 meres
Se BG ficlds end by very high offictala, Sho work3 behind tho eccuscs
; 3 aS Sy and fools thet her vork vould be ruined were she given credss ae!
Po oe ‘for what she hos ectually Gone. shoe 4s vivid ond Fula of 1afe Ee
a. 28 end one would hardiy -all hex self effacing; and yot her woss =]
4c done alsaort anonynoucly » Xi heve been around her enough to see al
how wido her cd4rele of Indian friends i453 end how constonths E|
rod continnou sy they etre-a through her house. Sho g063 oa ove ©)
_s«sindde. Has trsvelicd mosh sore than 209 thougend miaco.. Sha say aa
| .y in reoqut tontha she hn: felt abeolutely no smtegonica towerd her ed
a is ro pn Agerdorn. she is ohrewd, hea scherp eyes and earag bs EY
u knorlegzahle polatserdayy 4s np boa’ foo} y &s etrongiy centde a
5? coumunis ®; 45 varmhe rted and intellestually Besible. One of eH
} re the best ainds ZI have run dnto sinse coning out. aga
i 40 1 wash <3 had five tines the pev~le TEM i oretull ose
t nvoad polities, 2 thins ie 43 dso.” ae anand ees ra a
| ek yeh pet fee OT | af

--- Page 5 ---
ff: 00000 ae So on
eV
| Genera. Joaments. (continved,)
i B. 4 very good projeit haa regentuy bee:. iaunched, It le
’ orided The Delhi fradning ond orsent,»tion Gentee for
i Poroign Teehnici: ns in Indie. Tidis ia the second time it
= hone been held, I think, Jt begina today, Jan. 24. Gontimes
for tvo weeks, (The first one worked out a fine short
H biblidogrsphy on India, and a littic brochure on °Peods
t evailable in North India.) hie second course covers
i the Indian villngo, with visite out to villyYages, Indian
i art, erchitesture, danee; Indian history; religion teien ;
| in india; other religiona ond ,;hilosophieas Indian feuddy
‘ life and customs; Kealth probiens and reo -Urocay educational
I: probiens y urban probleag; rural une:ploynent and afd; the
\ roie cf foreign sid in India; diecusaion of the Pive Year |
i Plan. ents
z! It ie the wind of briefing that evry foretency coaing ta
fl Indie&,Shou.d have. It ie open to eli of thea’ We were
i dovited eiuply ce gueste end ahels sttend sang of the meetings.
: Fadias sre chown; tripe to art gslleries and auseums, ete,
y Mise Hersey hae hed mct. to do with alien b6le0 Dr. bouglas
Eeminger. and »robrbly othere, too. Indians will do zoet
of the briefing,
i 6. i shall write later avout the Pive year Plen, am still FER
£3 studying dt. Shell have » number of interviews with the ©
i planners, or with « few of thea. Shall elso go out om eoveral 2%
: of the projeets, Thie eecas inportant to ne for soesad
: changes snd how they sre mede breed polities. The politseal
pioture’ oan cert-inly not be on arstood if the cultural and
evedinal pdeturee are not atudied and analysed carefully. ;
i wey
a wd
we ere enclosing » fea excerpte vf spenahea made by 4
@v. Nehru, dr. Menon, anc Yr. Lieber chide peet weak at the
; Gongregs Party vig g-the: lag.
i. 4
i ¥
1 ee

--- Page 6 ---
. . . . ’ ‘ . . aoe . . Pa iS
‘ . ; . . ° ; . 7 Se ee ee) een tee 0S RNS: ac RRB EAR ETT Ie ee L . |
A FA A A AHN ODA (RLS
odeg end Enda of Inforaation; e2 :
1. Hy Piok,told me that the Goamunists are organising the ,
desestia workers of New Delhi . Last woes there wad a » 4
moating 2 oyahs at Emdda Gato oodled together for this
pur ooe, The waex bef ro the bearers (cF tho eucep era)
“wore gelled together, The Comunista are godng about 36 fn
s chread way; making very reasonable denanisa, sueh 16 o half
day off oe. ch woes, mn rise of perhaps 4 of & rupees a zontd
in wages. A Coumunist in every home will reslly be sonothings
Re <ryo there is iittle petivity of Gongresa party or Soolelist é
| party azong lsbor groups. The work is beang Gone by
Gousurists. Phey, sonehow,’? have the soncy Go thes
organi sattnal work whase there ie little nonoy ansng reguier
vcorkers Gue to weakness of industry, cuall member ond low wages
: of the worker ysl HO is troubled over lack of sotivity
‘i esong the deaocrrtla groupa in isbor cireles. Says he has been
e here cniy 3 sonths end ernnot ce yet soe the picture clearly.
2, Phe state Dept.ts coldness about peraattang futideg to vio dt é
3 the -iraen 4n Ghina g:-ve the U. S. a very bad press ont here. 7
; kt wae very cicver strategy on the pert of Chinny &¢ uno bad u
q strategy on our part to appear cadlous to the fecl ings of o q
is fasilies. Pamiiy affection rugs deep out here. It enstber
AN one of our many sail blugders whieh sonchow loon so large
2 when raoued by the hundreds of ailiions out here., If, sozehou, if
2 everytody céudd count up to ten before opoaking, and nink B93 XS
e hov China is going to tele 4% but how tho entire area of anfa
a will reect. Those fnailies couad have been told quietly end ‘
3 pereonelly thet 1¢ “hoy wanted to go they vould rot be protested "q
a by en aaericen proopor 3 they cou.ad even havo been ovarctly ‘
4 urged not to gog but the blatan’ press relosoe. . . . Forgive ey :
ig . efitorielising, J aa sure XJ am not supposed to Go it; t53 ozo &
} very cleae here to the sind and heart of 4340 and onnsst help ;
Q boing ruaro of these reactions of the peuple. anyone who loves )
the U. So oemnot help but wish thet mmx our o;okesaen would cpeas IE
j core Coftiy and nore tnotfully, a braggart or bally ts dislikes a
t7 ell ugen bodnga. fo have strength to fino; to brandish thst i
! etrangth offenia. , |
: 36 The Fines of India (Jan. £5) haa exocllcns editorial on the oo2 |
7 cociolistis soosety goad aa outitacd by oekru and Gongress party ia oo
- jeadera. "Boca Avad& aarsé a rovolutdonery ohift in GonsPess po. rt ” by
a o + ce o Add that At weamt vas en acknoclcdgacnt of the fespeaaing) : =
a iepertant role of the public sector in tho national ceomeaye> a ff Z £5
‘ rolo that was already dofined with greater preciaica fn tha yo 6B!
: engustrdieal poliey resolution. There was nothing to andisago thsa YH - - 2
3 there wovid be ay neu eagroaghsent oa the sphere reserved to y 8 a,
5 prévate enterprise, and the fears expresocd cutsida the Gongreas . By
‘a cn that score were, therefore, unjustified, Hoither tgs there |
Ls BN eny justification bor the apprehension that the aca ebjcstiva fe
a a) 200% a radical departure fro. the Sate Sdayn ideal. « o o Gasd
i mattered really was not tho Jabol that vos given the eco C76c3 o= uk
s tat the extent to which in gatual preotisce it would pe? a i S
a the proGustion of greater weslth ond in ita ~re eitskle fa
‘ Cistratution. o . . What tas odgnifdeant . . . vas that it ehould La
bf PS

--- Page 7 ---
&  — O4g bod enile of inforgat.on (cont. ) a. Att MaoAy wes ,
Po have been goapelled at this atego to oeck a sore ,opuler dabok ; ;
| for ita eoonoade and soodnl podiades.. . . &f this coamitacns io te a {
be sore than a design to steal the opponenta! elcstoral thuader, the fy i
; Gongreas Governzents at the Gentre and in he States have
| qapodiotoly to eet about the task of translating tho sea prirsiiples e |
dnto policies. . . . Pho only way to aake the polisy of Gongress ‘i
, Governaenta sceord with Gongrese principles is acl? eritioisna and ;
yet thoro were responsible Gongreaszen at Avadi who sav AH
4 danger even in the condennation of nelpraetices oy. CODEHISONED»
a: os « . Phe roed to full enployuent -- for which tho Gomgresa haa
p for the firet ting leid down e time-limit - = is by no geans eaoy. p
ay It Geuands oe conshete renovation of iifo in the countryside on the one 7
2 head and speedy industrialisotion making the country as ealfe
a eufficient ne ponadble on the other. (eta.j i
Digest of Ot nae
Z Be a weed nejhamlthts apegen on Jan, CAbh.
fe Ne spoke of the unsuitabdlaty of totelitordonisa in the desooratia
ee Republic of Indis and the in,doquacy of ca ,dtolien, stating that
ae there was left only e Socialiatioa approach open to the scougtry.
fo He statoa that the acoeptarece of the Socdalistis society as Sidon
pre meant the nationalisotion of institutions that could igneasately.
of nationalised with pdvantoge, Pho presua ion in so Goines, Gadd i
i Ur. Geotcusha, waa that Socdslised prodlotion vould bo este hy
ae profitable, Ha, however, cautioncd that 4f experfeage balded that ‘i
4 vicu, the atep aight have to bo retrpzccd.
s Ho otated that o Socdalistic 4dcal which roseived the support &
= of tho people could achieve the tuo objectives of increasing ;
- ational invo:e end enhancing indivadual davadend, ij
a He otated that Indio hed catablished eeonom4a etability though i
Be at a rather low lovel of preaperdty during the figa% Plea pexisd. .
: lio Gadd the eredit for the echiaveacas went nb oorely to esonoada
- Gakygeacat end planning but inunded othar fad, Sra, an0ng thea |
i ecoiotence froa fricadly nations. fhe Unitcd States, he eaad, ?
' hed contributed the largest share of foreiga gid. a
oe Removed from rrosooe( FAYE L (PRK 1 Sl.
{8 cs ebL Gagne” NE 7 =]
: oxzn Poldy 3 i =
b Waec Sindi ond te. Hadan (pravate ocoretar? of Mra. Ggadbira yo a
be and redeption cloris et Prine Uinistesie Bouse) over a 6937 yo Be
" Sup of tea in their quartere told Gythe followiag story; ! a
‘ While 4n Ghina, ot first big bangict gdven thea, tr. Aatsa end qo et
iS his sarin nigel (and others) wero cerved ting baby Ave on , Be
- Capped A honcsy. ro. Gandhnd (his daughter) was co shockc3 “ ae
- that che clssicrcd ot the ofgh3 end turned aves Hone of thea <<;
2 could cat the doldeacy, it Waa not ever gorved again to thea re
# while thoy were in Gina, Se
