
--- Page 1 ---
MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Support Branch DATE: 1 July 1963
FROM. : Mr. Ramon R. Hart ,
| ‘SUBJECT : Manuel F. ARTIME Buesa
#210 838
1. On 24 June 1963, Mr. Charles Matt, SAS/MoB/PM, extension
. 6488, was referred to me by the SAS Security Officer, Mr. George
; Iadner, and visited me in Room 4 E 21 to request some operational
support beginning 1 July 1963. Mr. Matt advised that two leaders
of the Cuban Exile Group were coming to Washington, D. C., on that
latter date to confer with CIA and other Government officials,
including probably Robert F. Kennedy, the Attorney General, concern-
ing the "new program" for the exiles.
%, Mr. Matt explained that a covert site (#302 922) located
at} 9218 Aldershot Drive, Bethesda,| Maryland, had recently been
procured to billet these exiles and to serve as the meeting place
for these sensitive discussions to take place. Mr. Matt said that
SAS is vitally interested in what these two exiles say to each other
when the U. S. Government officials have departed after a day's
discussions. He, therefore, requested that microphones be concealed
7 in the house to monitor their comments.
: 3. Mr. Matt said that the two men would arrive on 1 July and
; would be in Washington at the house for about a week or ten days.
. ~____,. The audio coverage was requested for this entire time. Mr. Matt
, jors iT as also said that the house would be retained for several more months
ares: legh and that the two exiles would return to Washington several more
eI, times in that period and that an audio surveillance would probably
[ASST /398) be requested for these latter visits also.
£772 dO 4, Mr. George Ladner supplied the true name of the leader of
‘ re egy the two men, the captioned Subject. Having been informed by Mr.
Peer | Matt that the coyert site was a private dwelling place in an
, ante ~-~-¥ expensive neighborhood, I assumed that there would be only two
be é oe methods of making an audio penetration of the premises:
pera a is ' ( i
De ee rai |
} [Cssap C yet bea ; . ‘
Hef C/xp. }
. : AaTS S oa eat ~ ET ee Ura aetsinathcd *
Backaround Nae Ply ge
Do Wot Fiasradung © SS ee

--- Page 2 ---
- SECRET -
; Page Two
#210 838
(a.) Concealing a tape recorder in the attic, base-  . ;
ment, or garage, and using a voice-operated
relay to actuate the recorder,

(b.) With the use of directories, search the

environs of the safehouse for the purpose
of locating a potential listening post where
radio transmissions could be monitored.

5 After checking with Mr. Joseph Iangan, Acting Chief,
Operational Support Division, I assigned the case to the District
Field Office and directed some agents to case the house and the
neighborhood to determine which method of penetration should be

. used. Mr. John Cryer was designated responsible agent at the
District Field Office, and after a quick survey, he reported that
the concealment and servicing of a tape recorder on the premises
would be impossible and that the only method. would be the use of
a@ transmitter and a nearby listening post.

' 6. Using the directories in SRS, I ran the names of all the

' yvesidents of the houses within a quarter-mile of grhe covert site

(S$ through SRD Indices and found ong [Fred C. thomad; Jr.) (#57 328),

“ of] 9127 McDonald Drive, Bethesda] Maryland, to be Staff employee.
Thrdigh telephone information, I located ve is] at the Langley
Headquarters Building and personally contacted him the gate thing
in the morning of 25 June 1963. I indicated to Mr.(Thdtas]the fact
that there was a safehouse in his neighborhood which we wanted to
"pug" and that he was the only Staff employee who lived within range
of our covert transmitters. I asked him if it would be too mich of
an pap gis taon én him for us to set up a listening post in_his house.
Mr. [Thétis \explained that he was scheduled to depart for [Karachi, 10
Pakistan | on & PCS assignment in approximately a month but that he
would bé“glad to make his home available as listening post. He
confided that his primary mission infkaracht was to be the audio! 4
penetration of the] Commnist Chinese Embassy land so_he would look ,_. uf
forward to the next’ week's operations in his” home as valuable CF
training. The next step I took was to set up & meeting among

George Ladner, Charles Matt, Sam Halpern, Executive Officer of SAS ;
and myself in Mr. Halpern's Office. I advised Mr. Halpern that the
— SeCRET oP)

--- Page 3 ---
| | CRET .-
, Page Three
#210 838
audio surveillance appeared to:-be technically feasible since I
had located a possible listening post. However, I admitted
to him that, even though the Office of Security has the "charter"
to conduct the surveillance, TSD controls the necessary expensive
equipment; Mr. Halpern mist arrange for TSD to transfer this
equipment to the Office of Security. Mr. Halpern declared that
the procurement of the necessary equipment should pose no problem
after he would make a few telephone calls, I then returned to.
my office and made out a list of the equipment which I felt
would be necessary, and awaited advice from him as to whom to
. contact in TSD to obtain it. 03
7. After checking with Mr.(f. T. BentJof the Audio Opera-
tions Branch of TSD as to appropriate equipment and after check~-
ing through the specifications in the "Audio Manual" of TSD, .
I selected the following:
Iwo voice-operated relays, QSC-2, $2,200.00 .
$1,100 each
Two Transmitter Radios, FM, 130 = 1ho 550.00
MCS, SRT-6H, @ $275 each
Two Battery Packs, 130 hrs. ops., 50.00
UWB-7, $25 each
Two Battery "A", 1.5 volts, Burgess 2 F 1.08
$ . 54 each ;
One Battery "B", 45 volts, Burgess A~30 1.87
$1.87 each
TOTAL $2,802.95
8. About Noon on 25 June, I received a telephone call from
Mr. John W. McBee, extension aks, of TSD, who told me that every-
thing had been laid on by SAS for me to obtain from TSD any
Jb }
, SECRET
7 ON&

--- Page 4 ---
, SECRET -
Page Four
#210 838
equipment necessary for this operation. Mr. McBee directed that
I £111 out a Form #88 and haye the technicians hand carry it to
the Franconia Depot in order to obtain the equipment. The use of
the Form #88 disturbed me in this matter because I had assumed
from Mr. Halpern that he would. arrange it so that TSD would turn
over the equipment to us without charge to anyone. The use of
the Form #88 implies that a division is allocating funds for the
purchase of equipment. However, I filled out the Form #88,
listing the above equipment, and walked it down to SAS, where I
gave it to Charles Matt to have signed. The form, bearing the
SAS Cost Center #3132-5455-3400, was completed and returned to
me within an hour, whereupon I gave it to DFO Agent Stan Lach,
who drove with it inmediately to the Franconia Depot. I called
ahead to Bob Woods and Charlie Beall of the T & I Shop at Franconia
and requested that they give a little briefing concerning the
operation of this equipment to Mr. Lach and Mr. Cryer, who was to
meet Mr. Lach there. Neither Cryer nor Lach had eyer had any
experience with any of the pieces of equipment on the list. Mr.
Woods and Mr. Beall were quite cooperative in this request.
9. Several problems kept appearing and disappearing while
the DFO technicians were transporting, installing, and testing
the equipment. One problem was the payment of the equipment. I,
received a telephone call from Mr. Dayton S. ("Doc") Barrows of
TSD, informing me that SAS had reneged on paying the $2,802.95 for
the equipment, but that if I would tell him what equipment we
wanted, he might be able to arrange to lend it to us. I told Mr.
Barrows that as far as I knew, we had indeed obtained the equipment
with the Form #88 y but that if we needed anything else, I would
contact him. Another problem which appeared was the rumor that
it was not two Cuban exiles who would be residing in the safehouse,
but only the captioned Subject and a Spanish speaking Staff employee.
If the rumor were actually true, it would seem that an audio
surveillance of the safehouse would not be necessary. I called
Charles Matt for an explanation, and he informed me that Senor
Artime was going to be the only person living in the house after
each day's discussions were completed ~ no Staff employee would
be living with him. I asked Mr. Matt to whom Senor Artime would be
f
|
og

--- Page 5 ---
: Page Five
#210 838
holding the conversations which we were to record. He replied
that he was interested in any visitors which the Subject might
receive and any telephone calls which he might make. I suggested
that possibly a telephone tap might be sufficient under these
~ circumstances. Mr. Matt disagreed and still requested a micro-
phone installation to cover the whole house if possible.
‘ 10. In addition to the equipment obtained from TSD, the DFO
i agents took their own SRR-4 tuneable receiver and the SRR-4 charged ;
* to the WFO. These receivers would be used in the listening post to
7 pick up the radiations from the two SRT-6H transmitters. It was
suggested to the DFO agents to borrow the two WFO transceivers to
be used to commmnicate during the installation between the listening
post and the safehouse; however, the agents chose not to use them
and relied solely on telephonic commmications. The "A" and "B"
batteries picked up at Franconia were to be used in the SRR-4
receiver so that checks could be made from an automobile to see
just how far the radiations extended around the transmitters. A
report on the area covered by the transmitters was requested of
the DFO agents.
i ll. The first test of the SRT-6H from the safehouse to the
| listening post was a failure. Its 50 milliwatt output, ordinarily
! good for a quarter mile, wasn't sufficient to reach the ‘receiver,
| 2/l0th's of a mile away. Its failure was blamed partly on the °
) @istance, partly on the brick construction of the listening post Ps
| and partly on the hilly contours of the housing development, which
'} deflected the 135 megacycle, line-of-sight radiations.
; ' 12. When this disheartening news arrived, I immediately
' telephoned Mr. Barrows of TSD and requested a pair of the more
powerful 150 milliwatt SRT-7 transmitters. I telephoned Mr. ;
: Barrows rather than filling out another Form #88 to avoid a
i possible furor within SAS. Mr. Barrows consented to loan two of
: these transmitters with their proper receivers on a hand receipt .
to us, and Stan Lach was dispatched to Franconia to pick them up.
“ An opportunity to test it on 28 June 1963 was thwarted because
ur. [Tos vas having foreign visitors in for cocktails ‘umkehesineme
that afternoon. But the equipment was installed and tested the
next day, Saturday, 29 June, and appeared to work satisfactorily. ;

--- Page 6 ---
rita! es nt
es Ses aloe ce
pa snr Pes pena beige ee oe
eau ee es Be eae Beery) ee
seep eee aie tte ues EST seo Na Fn ERE SS ee ae
14-00000 ARO ECE St tees os Bees be inate rt nRS SR ep Re aecwe shy ok iets is ee a ae PRG neal po Ges Pia tes, ea ie Se Pa N
ot Bee Rane eae eae. oe ee | ech ts one a oe
B - 2 a ¢ aS = = Peaperees te See ee SE aaa a
. eo oe ee testa ce Bay ONE SES Siar Sats aton og - eGo Rae Satie ela dees nae oa : oe
_ Be fabio CS" chet EA ayaeees Ae crue Be areas ere
pe — cee ois IAS a ee yas Shia Ss eres Te a scene aney
? Tk ORB RE ee an oe SRO SRS poe ea ee ee a:
= foaee z s fe oe rane fs on wh Seay ee eee are ee as No ed ate 5 BS eee ao = ak Sieg
oe aie’ a pce oes “Sixes Sy eM Gans MG peat rh Paris Bee Foe ne a ea ae Seer te a RD HOES ae oe Pipette: EO
“. 5 p51 01836: ae SS oe oe ae Ses Vee ae nae aed
es ee peeee re Stay GRGL wr Sapa pavers Sikes nee sa yA Re hi oes ea Sunk yes eo Susie igh sapere GO hIN Sones Sa ae
one eet eae case Ce eee ee pee rey. oy LEP IRE ISS See wie ae
OMe " en or reese Gad yshiie PA: Suki eT a Seer 5 tortures iadeete Aes Les farts oa Sine, Res Tie Ba sabes. ey sine Cs eh .
Ber rte nett ON Vee eg gi ae RG: Baa hie deat ROE Maat Rak ey eee ORES OL Head acne :
ae ne ae a 3 De ae ener aaaoiel phoned He eds eres yy
& ee oe ee ee 1963: Mr.’ Cryer. id -been: installed gai RES]
eae ae rata ges wake SAS Soe S528) SAREE ne6. 5) nas SEAS ee me a us i MEC. wate, wen a tty ia a i: oS hae :
— . Ce eee rg on 1 July Ts a "ar the’ basement eotithe ee Sete :
ag oa 13¢::,-Ab: 1330. + that, one: $ elgg SE one, inthe ig:up the:trans wei ee eee ees |
. ees Wa BUS A ee ote DAIS Bie NOREEN ie DON es ic re ee C=23N' Sida POA ae Pardee >
“ crepe quart ; 2 iiaharee “thes a gee ae oni TeWas; pick aS ,Qsc= voice: ey
ie i“ halidet: Tne ove dates ei chp ecelyi ries Peat oe emer be2:! Tae, ee i tf baie et PR anes 5
Beans Re e(cett ~ Siege ae SRRr-Ler. ac ar . D&E ances, get ecAmpex:, PN Brine eet --
Sethe pusejand nat One fe Gusto: etek ine oe safehous See TaN 37
oe se ee roan ak \ controlled to 3 operating ;
oe Se od FM transmt s in the , pee S22 a
. RACES Shai aa Oe ered Saeney eycle mile. Ties! Jk. (ESSE Bee eT SERS iis etal seseenes
, EEE The" AC-powe 157.4 mega : ly one mile. SeiLAh tin ae ont ARE Ee
ae = 5 someed: ee ¢ter with-a“h ter wld
- Se Lye Th ould..enable.th the ‘house hol . an a . 4
— swi tch..which. w ‘present’ at leaves. 0. 4; oe ; Heep ead
ne bape they are prese on when they, save. oe te
ussions and t tise / ae . have consente ir own baseme ag sabia.
ear ope Mr’ Thomas fan rder themselves the monitoring day py: 2 ee
i aren 5 Soe of the tape ice-operated rela metas Shap the ayia take Sa)
eons gage OB -use..of 1 cfanyway enn Cea Ne ckup! the: 6 ys tas - :
Je ee ee Lm ceeert ceancnes oulds bes Sy repairs ;(or, s well-known tA ea ‘eh
es oh Ona Foffic Ce ag eae tment 7 Stas cee equipmen: OFS See eee
ee eeand to . bun and rec esence Ol tr Porthis wisi OS pe sigstiaitn inh
— = F te ncand. the Pre oe amy; of: ~ “Mri Tomas ote Frees |
oe : aoe pacemete ouldsnobyraise:. the oreign digni te jcover s2% eed ene SEE OAS
Pare Sree ont ames ‘bas Wey a cay ted on ny a one id . tape ERIS Sep pies ie Se aaa BPA
Bare AY EAE: % ‘Sy: DE eas are exp ee - par tme: Nee Bas ef eS feet sie om De F Se irks ao cog es ea Ee
aa : se ee. ee ai ee Se IEE; (ae “wa el ee wee a ;
ai a eee oe SOT UR fas ger ewer aoe rat N SE bs ie pe Let at oe ga cares
ae c ee ol ed BS Man a) Ai cae aoe mn ou Ce LR, . . 5
PES te pe uli iee one Sree EZ BEES Ramon R.- Hart: L i Mg at
Bice ie: ee as oe eS Rad hc atereonen § Coe : ete ta wh fae Sp 3
ES ge Een Ry harry ee ee eS. a scons ea te ——. — >
alae ce SHES ee a STS See “ ee ee Rees neces oe ae a4
eee Sen SA ue a ee ey ee a
pgeteee es oe pee a a Bp Pp PE Oe, eres a
er eras [4° * a nr Ea ie te ad a ee
