
--- Page 1 ---
oo, oo JMWAVE COVER FACaL_ cy |
A. NAME : Ace Marine Survey, Inc.

. OFFICE ADDRESS : Room 214, 2525 S.W. 3rd Street, Miami, Florida
MAILING ADDRESS : P. 0. Box 1337, Main Post Office, Miami, Florida
LOCATION : Office of Attorney Norman 8. Pallot

B. TYPE OF FACILITY: This is a Florida Corporation established by and
under the control of JMWAVE and certified to do
business in Florida. Ace Marine Survey, Inc. was
formerly known as Ace Cartography Company, a

corporation which had been certified to do business
in Florida on 1] July 1962. This Corporation was
amended on 4 November 1966 to its new name, Ace
Marine Survey, Inc. :
The President of the Corporation is Alfred J.
Moran of New Orleans, Louisiana. Mr. Moran is a
very prominent businessman in the New Orleans

area. He is head of Kalvar and has investments
in a variety of businesses which include many oil

interests. He is known to Headquarters represen-
tatives particularly in Logistics.

n. OSTENSIBLE BUSINESS: Ace Marine Survey, Inc., is engaged primarily
in marine research including the study of marine
life and testing of marine equipment. However,
its general provisions permit it to perform aimost

any corporate function.

>. USE :  JMWAVE use of the Corporation is to provide cover
for a maritime vessel, the M/V SONORA. The Corpora-

) tion provides status cover and payrolling of the
agents assigned to the M/V SONORA and the safe area
or berthing site from which the vessel operates in
the performance of its ostensible business. a4

—E. FUNDING : Method - This account is funded through the [Bank

and Hall covert account at the First National
Bank of Miami] by the following method: A check
in the total amount of the deposits is drawn on
this account. A credit ticket is obtained by our
cleared contact from the cash vault. This credit
ticket together with the appropriate deposit slips

; for the various corporations is then turned over
to a teller, where it is combined with all other
transactions.which are processed by that particular
teller on the given business day. Since the number
of transactions handled by a given teller may go

, as high as 250 to 300 there is slight chance of
the deposits being attributed to the particular
credit ticket which accompanied these ee poss ts
Overt Attribution or Source -[offshore Navigation
Company, 3503 Fern Street, New Orleans, Louisiana }
or Ae Ty
MY)

--- Page 2 ---
‘ . 2
yr. TAX STATUS : This is a profit-making corporation and has met —
. . ‘ Federal and State requirements as follows: 3
1) Corporation Federal Income Tax Returns. 4
2) Federal Withholding and Unemployment Taxes. a
3) Florida State Unemployment Tax. -
 ¢
4) Florida Corporation Report and Tax Return. bee
5) Florida Intangible Property Tax Return. =
G. AGENT IDENTIFICATION: The Corporation was providing status cover
and payrolling for 10 Cubans as of 3] January . Ee
1967.
_ ; =.
it. ASSESSMENT OF VULNERABILITY:
1. Maritime Branch Assessment dated 6 March 1967:
This cover company should be affected little by .
a flap. However, because of the berthing location 1
within largely tourist or recreation areas, its .
commercial activity has been noted. °
2. Cover Branch Assessment dated 6 March 1967: -
A successor to Ace Cartography Company, Ace Marine
: Survey, Inc., is currently used in connection with .
the leasing of a waterfront berthing site for the
berthing of M/V SONORA, which is registered under .
this firm. The firm also provides cover and serves
as well as the vehicle for payrolling the agent crew. .
Ace Marine Survey, Inc.,is engaged in the field of
marine research, including the study of marine life .
as well as the testing of marine eauipment.
In view of the current limited use of this cover,
the likelihood of exposure is considerably reduced.
However, if such an exposure did occur, it is felt
that the damage to either WOFACT or the officers
of Ace Marine Survey, Inc., would be of no great
import. The major likely "injury" that would be
sustained would be the denial of further use of the .
berthing site and the need for re-naming/re-register-
ing the M/V SONORA.
In order to add depth and lend further substance
to the cover story, the officers of a legitimate de
firm,{ Offshore Navigation Company, New Orleans, {
Louisiana, which is engaged in marine research and
off-shore oil exploration activities, have agreed
to backstop the activities of Ace Marine Survey, Inc.
and to recognize the latter firm as a client.
SEGRE! CA

--- Page 3 ---
14-00000 | . . OW . . Lo we . : _——
y SLUR L .
JMWAVE COVER FACILITY 2z|
28 |
: Ceres Enterprises, Inc. wo bg
ra i ato:
-ojg8$ : Suite 1409 Biscayne Building, 19 West Flagler Street, | 29 j=
, Miami, Florida 33101 mp
30 to"
-.59RESS : P. O. Box 5045, Main Post Office, Miami, Fla. 33101 aT
3l1ieWr
: Office of Attorneys George E. Brown and Thomas B, Duff pees Wo:
_viCILITY: This corporation was established in Florida and 32 i
certified to do business on 10 March 1964. It was SG
established by and is under the control of JMWAVE. 33 |
The President of this corporation is Mr. Richard W. BA owe
Freeman, who is the retired Chairman of the Board . mS
of Delta Airlines. He is also the principal owner 35 |.
of the Coca-Cola Bottling Company in New Orleans. we!
In addition he has many other varied interests 36 =
including investments in oil ventures. He is ex- 3 i
tremely prominent in the New Orleans civic and - aa io
social structure. 37 |
_.f BUSINESS: This corporation was established ostensibly to ps ix
maintain and operate boats for all types of marine — ,
research. go
: This corporation provided cover for maritime my 410 =
vessels, the M/V BARB and the M/V JADE, and served —_
as the status and payroll mechanism for the agents 4l
employed by this corporation. 7 5 emer
BN ag!
; : Method - This account is funded through the (Bank : . ‘
and Hall covert account at The First National J Oy
Bank of Miami|by the following method: A check , AL
in the total amount of the deposits is drawn on Loe ag
this account. A credit ticket is obtained by our Ss
cleared contact from the cash vault. This credit 18! ;
ticket together with the appropriate deposit slips pho,
for the various corporations is then turned over 19 i
to a teller, where it is combined with all other Lag
transactions which are processed by that particular 20 jie
teller on the given business day. Since the number PT ae
of transactions handled by a given teller may go }21:%4
as high as 250 to 300 there is slight chance of eee: |
the deposits being attributed to the particular 22. 45
- credit ticket which accompanied these deposits. as
oy 23 tau
Overt Attribution or Source - [Peterman & Peterman / . a
Associates, P. O. Box 8103, Main Post Office, a
Chicago, Illinois) 24l
. ne
a 25 | a.
26\ 7"

--- Page 4 ---
Df De on ry. - ._ —
i a
LEAL E ;
| SecRel. |
27 |
“28 |
taX STATUS : This is a corporation for profit. It has met spice
: federal and state tax requirements as follows: | 291
feta OO
1) Corporation Federal Income Tax Return 30. |
, —-!
2) Federal Withholding and Unemployment Taxes 31 io
3) Florida State Unemployment Taxes mer
- 321.
4) Florida Corporation Report and Tax Return bo
5) Florida Intangible Property Tax Return | 336
GENT IDENTIFICATION: None at this time. . 34 |
SSESSMENT OF VULNERABILITY: 35 :
1, Maritime Branch Assessment dated 6 March 1967 - The cover 1. BG
mechanism established by the Ceres Enterprises, Inc. was very - - ~——!
secure during the period of its operation and remained so 37 3
until the loss of one of its agents who was captured in Cuba. eo
This made it necessary to terminate the activities of this 38
corporation and transfer its activities to another entity. . _
This was accomplished without any unusual events or actual — 39
public exposure. If any should occur at this late date, the oo
_ damage would be minimal. 10.
2. Cover Branch Assessment dated 6 March 1967 - This corporation ) _—
is currently inactive and will become legally dormant after - ae
three years. It was placed in this status due to an operational —
flap which could have exposed the corporation. The last active AZ:
tax return was filed at the tax year ending March 31, 1966. : —
An additional tax return will be filed for the past tax year .
which will indicate no financial transactions. he
eo,
Its assets and activities were transferred to other JMWAVE 18 | _
entities. This corporation was established to provide cover eo
for a Maritime Branch vessel and status and payroll cover for 19 i?
the agents assigned to it. The corporation is inactive and —.*
will be allowed to remain so. It was placed in this status 20 la,
due to a flap wherein an agent was captured in Cuba who had cn
knowledge of this vessel and its ownership. There was no pants:
public exposure in the Miami area. However, because of the po:
past incident the corporation should not be used in the future =
under its current name. While in use the corporation served 22°...
very satisfactorily for the purpose for which it was established. E oo
, 23°:
24)
° 25°
