
--- Page 1 ---
14-00000 ¢ - ‘
104-10105-10218 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

. yee ae Tae a 18. FAL . Er Des ee -
tae SURIED:? “LI use uy. CL CONF Ip WAL LD. SECRET: 3

: JA GSUBJECT: & (Optional) wise 6. 8 So So Pte ya ce bet fn dg eee nd Bee

7 aeons 8 Mitchell Livingston WER BELL III o' 00 2 8 Sh eR
BD TERO ME oe ee bec EXTENSION [{ NO. a Bo a tli a Pod
wee aaetinge Chief, 1884 AEFEUCRRRESOURSI-CemnLceerarsccceren fr:
ee RNG Tinga er | PAE e283 MAR 1976 oo ee ee
i done pan ‘Ame gica. Division | | me eee ee me ae :

STORAGE desigaation S¥oom: number, and : : corde ageh Se) SURGE SR OR ee a Bae

& golden Lgl Ndi oiiely tree DATE OFFICER'S - COMMENTS :(Numiber each; commento, show ftom awhomn ae

aan ate ina) ech lie neaeasee PAR Eat ee. “INITIALS | to whom: Draw.ta'Mine “cress: ccolumitatiar Gack ok a Rey -

te Rie: EE, DoE Ue as i. I EOE SIE I eos 2a Sees ae i
anno Re
| ADDO age AD aC ie ee
E : TOE EG ITE ZO: nian  ) (Bee ReTORN TO Cla: ee Se a He 3
ee ee ee Y _  SBéekgrouhd Use Only 6 pod
be ce eee as wen - ee) Not Reproduce’. ocean
ee eee go Pe A ee
on fae eee ee ——_) ere eres see eee |
Mn A ee eas ee ne i acer in 3
_ | Associate sGeneral og | ares a
~ Counsel 0GC 7D01 oo, aE
ee Preis feos rg pate La EET a cea here

FORM 61 0 USE PREVIOUS INTERNAL .
3-62 EDITIONS SECRET CONFIDENTIAL UNCLASSIFIED
USE ONLY

--- Page 2 ---
re , po | 00 /H% KCI |
OGC 76-1072
3ls/7 .
3 MAR 1976
7 RETUANTO CIA
(Sackground Use Only
ADO Nok Reproduce
MEMORANDUM FOR: Associate General Counsel, OGC oom
VIA : Deputy Director for Operations—y7')"/
SUBJECT : Mitchell Livingston WER BELL III
REFERENCE : Your memorandum of 24 February 1976,
Subject as above
1. Per reference request, we are forwarding
information in our files concerning contacts that have
taken place between this Agency and WER BELL.
2. The following is a summary of all DDO contact
directly with WER BELL which took place in 1959:
a. » Ghonae 1959° Memorandum to C/WH Division
Signed by Chomas J. Flores) stated that General
Cabell called lores to report that WER BELL had .
called him. 97WER BELL discussed with General Cabell
a trip WER BELL had taken to the Dominican Republic
and offered to come to Washington at his own expense
to discuss the trip. No commitments were made to
WER BELL by General Cabell.
b. <A,_,7 July°4959 Memorandum of Conversation
signed by(T. J. Flores) stated that WER BELL was
met in Washington, D.C., by Elores who discussed ;
with WER BELL information” oncerning the Dominican
Republic, Fidel Castro, Fulgencio Batista and
General Pedraza.
?
c. A July °1959 Memorandum of. Conversation
signed by(T. J. Flores) stated that on 8 July 1959 .
O35 (Flores fal ed WER BEL to set up an appointment.
During~the meeting, WER BELL was told that the
United States would not support any revolutionary
activities by General Pedraza. He was also told
that the U.S. will observe its international
obligations concerning Cuba and Pedraza, and that
, “himiroet ‘cu ev Ghat ta...

--- Page 3 ---
Co , ) es, :
, -2-

, - RETURN TO CIA
the U.S. would not overlook any violations by Background Use Only
Pedraza or his followers of. the neutrality Laws ..W00 Net Reproduce

03 (Flores) said that the Agency had some interest in
the possibility of his (WER BELL's) working
. for us as an intelligence gatherer under terms
to be negotiated after.we obtained a security
clearance on him.03 (lores) pointed out that the
Agency was not attempting to limit his actions °
in connection with the Dominican Republic, nor ,
was it assuming any responsibility for those >)
matters he carried out in his own behalf. (Flores),
dictated a Secrecy Agreement to him and had him
sign it. ;
d. AQ guly°t959 Memorandum for the Record
signed by(T. J. Flores}reported that Subject
called him on 9 July I959 from New York.. WER BELL
gave (Flores) further information on Loos, fnu,
thé>represehtative of a Colonel Frei, fnu, of the
Swiss. army who had 1,000 men available for duty
- as soldiers. co
e. 20 July°1959 Memorandum for the Record
signed byt. J. Flores) reported that WER BELL
called, lores) from Miami on 20 July to ask about
the Agéncy picking up the tab for his forthcoming
trip to the Dominican Republic. They discussed
his clearance which had not come through.
. £. A 3 August 1959 Memorandum for the
Record signed by Martha R. Tharpe reported that Oo
on 24.July 1959°WER-BELL called for Mr. (Thomas J.
Flores} Since (Flores| was on leave, Tharpe took
the call. WER BELL gave Tharpe further infor-
mation concerning Pedraza and Batista. Tharpe
called WER BELL back that evening to tell him
that if he obtained further information to
report it to Mr. Justin veti Me? GL Contacts
Representative in Miami, until Mr. Flores )returned
to Washington. 03
g. A sOAugust 1959 Memorandum for the Record
signed by(@. J. Flores)stated that WER BELL phoned
him on 5 August 1959 to ask if there was any news
on his clearance. WER BELL said he wanted to go
to the Dominican Republic soon, and would like CIA
. to pick up his expenses. He was told there was no
3

--- Page 4 ---
, . an . Cee bend
-3-
03
news. (Flores) and WER BELL discussed the Dominican
Republic and Cuba. On 3 August 1078s) phoned RETURN To
WER BELL and told him that his clearance had not Backar du CIA
been granted and that he should not predicate his Mo Rot he se Only
activities on the expectation of the clearance ats ONO Reproduce
any given time. WER BELL said that the Pedraza
group was air lifting and dropping material into
Cuba.
4
h. A 9 September 1959 Memorandum for the
Record signed by. . J. Flores) reported that
WER BELL called (Flores) on 9 September 1959 to
rovide information on Cuba. He was told by
3 lores) that his clearance had not yet been
processed.
i. According to a 23 September 1959 of
Memorandum for the Record signed by(T. J. Flores)
WER BELL called(Flores)on 9 September 1959 to -
ask if his clearance ,had come through since
he wanted the Agency ’to finance his trip to
the Dominican Republic. .He was told it had cee
not. WER BELL told @lo8es Jabout some people
who had been discussing the counterfeiting
of U. S. dollars and Cuban pesos for use in .
connection withox¥uban revolutionary activities.
He was told by lores )to contact the FBI.,>On
13 September WER BELL had phoned Fiores) av home
to say that the FBI had referred him to the
Secret Service on the counterfeiting aspect,
and that no one seemed particularly interested
in the’ gun running. The Secret Service asked
him’to go to Miami at his own expense to obtain
further information on the matter and WER BELL
asked (lores) advice °F Flores said that he could
notinfluence. him one way or’the other since he
was not in a position to direct his activities,
; but felt he might be better off to take no action.
He was told that (Flores)would be in touch with
him as soon as he hadany further information
concerning our possible use of him.
j. Al3 October1959 Memorandum for the
Record signed by Thomas J. Flores)states that
WER BELL phoned him on 25 September 1959 to report
on Cuba. On 2 October 195933@lores) talked with
WER BELL by phone and terminated the relationship.
3. The following undated memorandums are also contained in
WER BELL's file: ,
Ip cE

--- Page 5 ---
-4q-
03 a. A Memorandum for the Record signed by,

¢. Flores )reports that WER BELL called Flores on -

3 August~1959 to discuss Cuban activities in Miami. RETURN TO CIA
his memorandum also records that WER BELL phoned  ®acxground Use Only

63(Flores jagain on 26 August 1959 at which time activi tiG9 Not Reproduce
in the Dominican Republic and Cuban activities in

Miami were discussed. WER BELL also asked about the

status of hisclearance, and was told it had not yet:

come through.

3)
b. A letter signed "W'' addressed to ("Ton")
gave "W's" location and some information concerning

Batista and Castro. (This letter is probably in
, the 1959 time frame.)

v3 c. A Memorandum of Conversation signed-by

(Z. Flores) reports that WER BELL called(Flore9 and

gave his~location. The status of WER BELL's

clearance was discussed and (Flores Jtold him it...

had not yet come through.°? WER BEL gave (Flores) oF

. some information concerning Batista. (This
memorandum probably is in the 1959 time frame.) oo
d. An unsigned report, apparently from

WER BELL, gave a summary of his contacts and

activities during a trip to the Dominican Republic.

(This report is probably in the 1959 time frame.)

4. A 17 December 1963 dispatch from Station Santo Domingo
reported that Station (NOC Officer Joseph Luna) recently met ,
WER BELL. in Santo Domingo. ,,, No further details of the meeting
were reported. 605

5. According to the CS file on WER BELL, three former
Agency employees were contacted in 1974 by WER BELL and other
representatives of a group called "Friends of Abaco (FOA),

a group allegedly advocating the secession of the island of
Abaco from the Commonwealth of the Bahamas. The three former
employees contacted are:
a. John Patrick Muldoon, retired from
CIA on 20 March 1972. ;
03
b. Gheodore John Roussos), retired from CIA
oF (on 31 July 1970.) He was rehired on a
, contract in February 1971. His contract
was terminated in September 1973.
Graney ,

--- Page 6 ---
, : . po wees
-5-
¢ FETURNTO CA
c. Walter Joseph Mackem, separated from (Glackground Use Only
CIA on 31 October 1973. . ANDO Not Reproduce
6.. Mr. Muldoon contacted Agency employee (E. James °F
McTighe)on 22 May 1974. Mr. Muldoon told Mr. McTighe
that he’ was nominal Vice President of a Washington-based
firm called "Security Consultants International."" He presented
Mr. McTighe with a report containing the essential data he
possessed concerning WER BELL and other members of FOA whom
he had met on 17 and 20 May 1974 in Washington, D.C. According
to Mr. Muldoon, WER BELL had hopes of establishing gaming
casinos, hotel and other tourist facilities in Abaco catering
to the U. S. tourist crowd. As a consequence of some run-in
with Prime Minister Pindling of the Bahamas, however, WER BELL
is apparently persona non grata in the Bahamas; hence his
ambitions appeared to be contingent on Abacan independence.
Mr. Muldoon reported that at least on two occasions WER BELL ~
made a concerted effort to involve persons formerly affiliated
with the Agency in the activities of the FOA in support of
its independence. On several occasions, WER BELL introduced
Mr. Muldoon and Mr°.3 Rous sos) as active Agency officials, implying
that either the Agency or the United States Government supported a
the aims of the FOA. WER BELL also proposed to Messrs. Muldoon
and Qoussos) in separate conversations that they conduct a study,
involving a’visit to Abaco, to determine the feasibility of
Abaco's independence in political and economic terms. The
study was to include interviews with citizens of Abaco prior
to an alleged "plebiscite" on independence to take place in
Abaco on: 28 June 1974.03 In default of the collaboration of ;
either Muldoon or Roussos ) WER BELL hired Mr. Walter Joseph 0
Mackem, a former Agency riend of both Muldoon and (Roussos) 9
According to WER BELL's file, Mackem later in 1974 contacted
the Agency in an attempt to get an official policy on the
activities of the FOA. Mackem was informed that the case
comes under FBI jurisdiction, that this Agency has no official
involvement, and that all information we had on the matter had
been made available to the FBI. He was advised at that time
to report his contacts and any information he had to the FBI.
I3
7. On 24 March 1975, Mr. (Joseph P. Hayes) assigned to
SE/PCH, reported that during the week of 9 March 1975, he
talked with Mr. Wesley Dyckman. Mr. Dyckman is a former Agency
employee employed by the Drug Enforcement Agency. According
‘to Dyckman, former Agency employee Walter Mackem was employed
in the Washington area‘as a private investigator. He is also
involved with a paramilitary activity funded by some unnamed
British source, The activity, which Dyckman referred to as
aearaes
bin ae ,

--- Page 7 ---
-6- (aekground Use Only
. (Do Net Reproduce
"the new land project" sought to establish a tax shelter on
one of the out-islands of the Caribbean by forcefully taking
over the island and establishing a government there. Mackem
is supposedly involved in the paramilitary training of forces
who would participate in this adventure. According to Dyckman,
the paramilitary training supposedly was to take place in
Georgia, where WER BELL is based.
P
8. On 31 August 1974, Mr. Rousso9 met with Mr. K. Michael
Absher, who at that time was AC/E/GC, and told him that
WER BELL was leaving for Athens on 31 August, to sell arms to
the Greek Government. WER BELL wanted Rouss0s) to be his
advisor in this venture and to go to At eusbbs} to be Hus
WER BELL that he would check with CIA before giving Wim an answer.
WER BELL asked (ROusso3) to see if the Agency was in favor of
such an.arms deal or not. Mr. Absher strongly advised against
o3 (Roussos!) getting involved inthis deal 23 Roussos) told Mr. Absher
that he understood and agreed not to get involved. Roussos )o5
said that WER BELL would probably cali him from Athens and “he
would give WER BELL a final negative reply.
9. On 22 July 1974, the FBI reported that WER BELL may
be in possession of a one-line note from former CIA Director :
William Colby stemming from a chance meeting with the Director
at an OSS alumni dinner, reading something like "Good to. see
you again." This note was apparently used by WER BELL to
suggest that he and Mr. Colby were good friends. This infor-
mation was passed on to Mr. Colby on 9 August 1974.

10. According to reporting from several Stations, WER BELL
and Arthur L. Smith (a cohort of WER BELL's) were in several
Central American countries during August and early September
1962. Their principal activity appeared to be contacting
officials of the governments of Guatemala, Nicaragua, and
El Salvador for the purpose of obtaining recognition of a
de facto Cuban Government in exile called the "United
Organization for the Liberation of Cuba." In discussions with

Nicaraguan Government representatives, WER BELL claimed the
proposed Cuban Government in exile had the support of 90
separate Cuban exile organizations and 186,000 Cuban exiles.

WER BELL offered a representative of the Nicaraguan Government
$100,000 to obtain that government's recognition of the Cuban
Government in exile. The group claimed to have its headquarters
at 1025 Connecticut Avenue, NW, in Washington, D.C. While in
Guatemala, Smith claimed that the group had a man in the .
Department of State in Washington, D.C., whom they pay $6,000
per year "to keep them advised."

Open P

--- Page 8 ---
, . ¢ RETURN TO CIA |
-7- Background Use Only
» (Go Not Reproduce .
11. In December 1965 WER BELL contacted a Miami DCD
asset and told him that he and six Cuban exiles in the U. S.
had organized a group, including approximately 20 Cubans
inside Cuba, to perform a commando operation in Cuba during
early January 1966., Their primary mission was the assassination
of Fidel Castro, with the secondary mission of blowing up the
generators that supply electricity to Havana, Cuba. WER BELL,
at the time, stated that he was trying to get a "green light"
, from CIA to proceed with the mission, and inferred that the
mission would be called off if such approval was not obtained.
12. On 7 February 1966 the Miami office of the FBI
reported that WER BELL had been in contact with various news
agencies concerning an alleged plan to assassinate Fidel Castro,
and reportedly also had discussed the plan with Mr. Richard
Phillips, Public Affairs Officer, Department of State, Washington, .
D.C. WER BELL claimed to have a group of some 500 men infiltrated
into Cuba and said that they were ready for action to overthrow
the regime immediately following the assassination of Castro.
According to the FBI, WER BELL gave the impression that he is
acquainted with many high government officials, both in the U. S.
and other countries, and implied that his assassination plan ve
had been approved by CIA.
13. According to a memorandum in WER BELL's file, on 7
February 1968, one Bruce Arman Baker telephoned an employee
of this Agency and said he had been in contact with WER BELL.
Mr. Baker said that WER BELL was in the weapons manufacturing
business and delivered them by air throughout the world.
Mr. Baker said that he understood that WER BELL does this for
CIA. Mr. Baker said that he understood from WER BELL that he
would have to get a CIA security clearance to fly for WER BELL.
Baker said that he was afraid that his past smuggling record
might keep him from getting a CIA clearance. (35
14. WER BELL came to the attention of the Bangkok Station)
in early 1969 when he went to Thailand representing himself
- as Vice President of Sionics, Atlanta, Georgia. He described
himself as a counterinsurgency expert, had a variety of weapons
to display, claimed to be a retired colonel, and introduced
himself at a local nightclub as Chief of CIA in Thailand.
WER BELL attempted to sell arms to_the Thais and also to a
variety of U. S. military elements?? (Station Bangkok) passed
the gist of his reputation to key personalities in the U. S.
mission and the Thai Government stressing that he was not
sponsored in any way by the U. S. Government.
ene

--- Page 9 ---
“ RETURN TO CIA
~8- Background Use Only
. Do Not Reproduce
15. WER BELL was also the subject of two memorandum
signed by Lawrence R. Houston. Mr. Houston, answering a
request from Joseph J. Liebling, Deputy Assistant Secretary
of Defense, on 23 February 1971, denied WER BELL's alleged ,
affiliation with the CIA. On 28 October 1971, Mr. Houston
wrote Mr. David H. Henretta, Jr., of the Industrial Security
Clearance Review Division, to return notarized Interrogatories
previously sent by Mr. Henretta.
16. We have no information on Colonel Bayard except news
articles reporting his death which were forwarded by the FBI.
| 17. Per your request, we have sent instructions to the
LA/Miami Station that there should be no contact with WER BELL. ,
Plz ate
Néstor B Sanchez .
| Acting Chief
- Latin America Division Lae
E2 IMPDET
CL BY 012913
Coane Ty |
GH BSG! Y
