
--- Page 1 ---
‘o4-10106-10779
* mr . on yp TN GRAAL my oo
o iSackground Lise ee ainy!
wie Net Resrocucs
MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD
FROM: Robert D. Clark :
. . _ Office of General Counsel re
|. SUBJECT: ° |* . PDLADLE: . Outside Lawyer to Draw Up. 9
Ee Deed of Trust: 0, Fo te BOTS de
1. PDLADLE is a high-level defector residing in New York who has
had advanced to him a number of large "loans" over the years, in addition
to his "salary." Some of these monies have gone into the purchase of
some real estate in the State of New York. The Agency now wants a
Deed of Trust executed in favor of one of its nominees on the New York
real property.
2. Possible lawyers to handle drafting the Deed of Trust are:
a. (Natalie Koether} a cleared N.Y. lawyer, on whom FR
Division has an operational approval. They have an active.
' interest in using her and her husband. If bis : Ko8thed is
used on the Deed of Trust, FR would lose an asset. Were it
not for our rule of no operational use of cleared attorneys, oo,
; . FR apparently (accordingly to Eric Sowers) has no objection
a to Ms . Koether'} drawing up the Deed of Trust;
oO
b. another cleared lawyer. The clearance on any such lawyer
would have to be updated by Security. The best candidate
Bill Ashbaugh and I were able to locate off the Cleared Attorneys
Panel was(Richard C. Kullen, Jr., OS #651 162), last cleared -
21 March 1975; O6, 0D
c. the case officer for PDLADLE, MONCURE, who is apparently
, a practicing N.Y. lawyer who at one time worked for the Agency.
This idea was suggested by Vasia Gmirkin of CI Staff, the
client component on the Deed of Trust. The idea would be that
since MONCURE already knows that PDLADLE and MONCURE
would be used only on this PDLADLE job, the security and. cover
problems normally associated with allowing cleared attorneys
. to become involved in operations would not be as pronounced as
emery ney mY .
Mee te

--- Page 2 ---
Ht and Background Use Only
o. S90 Net Reproduce
usual. On the other hand, his prior association with the Agency
could jeopardize PDLADLE if drafting the Deed of Trust exposes
MONCURE to more scrutiny than his present association with
PDLADLE already does; and a ,
7 a . d. an attorney from OGC. N.Y. mortgage law would have to be —_
eS researched to try to make the Deed of Trust.freely assignable from ..
en _ one CIA nominee to another. N.Y. form books should be easily oe
we locatable in the D.C. law libraries. If the Deed of Trust follows N Yo.
_ eT form, would the fact that the OGC lawyer is not licensed in N.Y. .
in any way throw doubt on the document? When might the name
of the lawyer who drafted the document come to light?
| . Robert D. Clark - /
RDC: kas i
_ Distribution:
Original - DEFECTORS ,
1 - RDC Signer
1 - Chrono
