
--- Page 1 ---
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
(E}=ONCLASSIFIED: — ([] [ATERNAL - [] . CONFIDENTIAL [] SECRET
» om . : > . i \ ; "
Se » JUTING AND RECORD SHEET — -,
_ ' . - . - Ld 7 hd - Pace teTa’ aries ar ay .
ee omen Foy ' Cosvercund Uso On'y ,
oe Robert R. Kierce " :
___ Special Security Unit, DDO LS 4 June 1976 . fj
building” asignation room numoers © _ DATE OFFICER'S COMMENTS (Number each comment to show from whom
oe ; ey | receren | rorwanoeo| INITIALS to whem. Draw a line across column after, each commen?.) ,
oo : RECEIVED | FORWARDED ;
2. wh ; 7 ee . oe % ‘ 4 sv ehee gs to
oe ga Fe ee “ cog gana g
a , gp Ree ES cnn FF
Boo : ne ee ee
rs eS ae
— — ee a)
FORM USE_PREVIOUS SsTPAL” ,
fom 610 “Eee ] -secReT [J CONFIDENTIAL’ [[] INTERNAL = [7] UNCLASSIFIED

--- Page 2 ---
nn CONFIDENTIAL «= .
oO 14 JUN 1976 , /
MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, External Activities Branch, SSD
~ SUBJECT : Manuscript by David. Phillips , so
1. The following passages are a compilation of
observations made. by the SSU regarding Mr. Phillips' : ne
manuscript. The comments are by no means a total list

' Of reservations concerning the submitted chapters but

those noted from the perspective of the SSU.
2. In.general the undersigned -felt somewhat enlight-

_ ened but rather uncomfortable in reading the submitted . 7
manuscript. This uneasy feeling appears to be based upon a
two impressions. Throughout the text, there is an obvious

. effort on the part of Mr. Phillips to "set the record straight" —
with-regard to events, techniques and activities involving the
CIA. Regrettably, as is often the case when one attempts
to clarify and present the real facts, there is a possibility .
-of further compounding a confused and ambiguous circumstance.
Because of the various ramifications of the activities of the
Agency, the SSU gained the feeling that more was lost rather
than won in Mr. Phillips' efforts. The second disarming im-
pression is that because an individual has proved to be an ,
effective and successful CIA operations officer, there is no © oe
. °  Clear-cut assurance that he can achieve the same success as an
author. The SSU was continually pained by Mr. Phillips’ efforts
to employ certain techniques often seen in spy fictions. The
problem with author Phillips is that he is not writing fiction
and has been identified as a former CIA employee with over
25 years in intelligence service. Although Mr. Phillips ;
. labored to introduce some humor into his manuscript, some of
_ his anecdotes appear to be in bad taste. | . .
3. The following comments are codified to complement
those parts of the manuscript reviewed in this reading. .
Epilogue ;
Page 6: Although Mr. Phillips makes a considerable effort
to conceal the true identity of "Abe", there is a question
as to whether, the fact that two cables were sent from Head-
quarters to(Chile)in May 1973, and if this manuscript is the
yroper vehicle to surface such information. en perenne tT
oe 1 Zhanwrer ot av Celle
fe CAIMPNET CL OY. |
PY "CONFIDENTIAL ee

--- Page 3 ---
mo, CONFIDENTIAL |.
; Page 13: Mr. Colby is quoted by the author indicating
certain information revealing complications between
Mr. Colby and Dr. Kissinger. In addition to breaching
personal confidences, the author contradicts what he had
indicated earlier to be an intent to permit Mr. Colby to
Speak for himself.

Page 14-18: Mr. Phillips again refers to "Abe" and
his evaluations of the various congressional select committees
investigating the CIA. In effect these comments are suggestive -
of Agency judgments and evaluation regarding the conduct and .,
success of the investigative efforts as well as other person-
alities critical of the Agency.

Chapter 3

Page'5: Have the circumstances regarding Mr. Wisner's
death ever been surfaced with such particulars as provided
in this text? ; oo

Page 14: The information regarding the "laundering of ;
money" as set forth in the first. paragraphs of this page
serves as a confirmation of official involvement in such a
activities. This should be deleted.

.Page 21: There is a Serious question raised regarding
the author connecting Ernest Hemmingway and the Havana Chief
of Station implying the prospect of a professional as well as ;
personal affiliation. —

Page 48: If it is in fact correct, has it ever been )
officially acknowledged that a U.S. citizen, a businessman
in Havana, implied by the author as being a CIA agent was
executed? Note: This chapter is replete with a profusion
of illustrations of tradecraft and operational activities
‘too numerous to set forth.

Chapter 5

Page 1: Mr. Phillips in his writing provides a :
historical chronology of senior assignments within the Agency
with particular reference to the LA or WH Division. This is

illustrated on this page in his reference to Colonel King
"regaining leadership of the WH Division". Anyone interested
in noting the organizational hierarchy and key personalities
in the WH or LA Division during the period of Mr. Phillips' - :
tenure with the Agency, would be aided considerably on page 2
and further as the author proceeds to identify Mr. Winston
Scott as the Chief of Station Mexico. ;
CONFIDENTIAL .

--- Page 4 ---
_ CONFIDENTIAL ., - .. :
Page 3: Although it has been. publicly surfaced that _
Mr. William F. Buckley had worked for CIA in the past,
the author on this page now ties him in with Howard Hunt
and Mexico City and further as an American contract agent. oo,
The best interests of the Agency are not served nor for that
matter the interests of Mr. Buckley and Mr. Hunt are not .
served by such revelations.
Page 4-6: The SSU believes it is totally unwise to .
have the mission and organization of the Mexico City Station
outlined as explicitly as contained in these pages. _
Page 5-6: The above observation is further complicated — OS
by the author's remarks regarding operations levied against ~ :
the Cuban Embassy in Mexico.
Page 8: The SSU further challenges the information set
forth on this page regarding the. biographic details of
Mr. Winston Scott's assignments in Cuba, (London), Eur Division
and Mexico City. . 15-] a
Page 15: The undersigned does not believe the content .

; of the information set forth regarding the Agency's procedures ;
associated with the purchasing of scotch liquor. He is implying. -
things which may perhaps have been unique to that station but __
certainly has not been a worldwide practice. Mr. Phillips’ mo

-anecdote about the prospects of the Agency printing counterfeit | .
tax stamps and the details involved in such planning, even , .
though perhaps presented in jest would not be viewed as such ;
in the eyes of many individuals in the United States today.

Page 16: Because Philip Agee has revealed the secret of

; the camera operation in his book,is it necessary for Mr. Phillips |
to repeat and in effect collaborate what a diseffected employee
‘of the Agency is purporting? From a friendly alumnus of the
Agency, this serves as a verification of Agee's statements and
provides a violation of sources and methods of this organization.

Page 18-19: Pursuing the aspect of sources and methods,
the SSU questions the author's anecdote regarding the identif-
ication and employment techniques of the material "why. me". ;

' It would seem that in so far as any chemical or technical
devices of this nature used by the Organization should not be |
surfaced in a book such as this.
3 a
vy CONFIDENTIAL . :

--- Page 5 ---
an a CONFIDENTIAL © - -: . .

Page 25-27: The specifics associated with the Cuban
Missle Crisis of 1962 involving former Director John McCone
and others are subject to strong question as to whether they. ~
should be included in this text. Again, what is provided
by Mr. Phillips in this manuscript is drawn from such personal
experiénces realized in his Agency duties. — ;

Page 33-35: The SSU takes exception to the information
presented regarding "walk-ins" based upon the same rationale
as contained above. It also flirts with the concerns of ..
sources and methods of this Agency. ~ |

Page 46-48: All remarks concerning technical operations
such as hidden microphones, quick plants, etc, are out of
order particularly with reference to the development of a
microphohe in the armchair. This again violates the Agency's .
concern regarding sources and methods.

Page 55-61: Considerable inside information is provided

regarding Lee Harvey Oswald and his activities in Mexico.
‘The SSU defers to LA Division, SE Division and OS regarding
the advisability of inclusions of this material in this
manuscript.
Chapter 7 . .

Page 26: Although there is a legal basis for the serving
of alcoholic beverages in the DCI dining room, is it appropriate
to include such "tidbits" providing the news media with grist
to conjure up stories of senior CIA executives making critical —_
decisions following an alcoholic luncheon. This implication
is synonymous with the problem of beer being available to the
Secret Service when they are on assignment with the President.

Page 31: Throughout the manuscript the author in his
narration confirms the fact that CIA has stations located around
the world and in his writing procedes to verify the location of .
these stations. The comments relating to where he was assigned.
and where others in the Agency have been or are assigned, not
only relates to the South America area but on this page the
author confirms the fact that there was a CIA station in

(2-32(Brazzaville.) Other than in the change in name there is no
effort made “to dispel the prospect that the station continues.

Page 42-44: Although it is a most timely subject,
information regarding any U.S. Government effort to assassinate
Castro is highly explosive. Mr. Phillips is reporting information
which he has privy to as a direct result of his Agency exper-
iences. These should not be contained in this book.

Vay CONFIDENTIAL

--- Page 6 ---
. ae CONFIDENTIAL = .
sO . ie t } :
Page 44: Although (Camp bary)nas unfortunately been
identified as a CIA facility, is it necessary for the author
‘to reinforce media articles regarding this establishment by
spelling out the cover background and other "chapter and
-verse" items regarding this facility. I believe comments ;
regarding firearms training, counterterrorism training should - |
be avoided. -
Chapter 8 LO . ; .
Page 7: The author's remarks cdncerning CIA support
to the Elbrick kidnapping again is a violation of sources .
and methods, and should be deleted. ; ;
Pages 13-21: It is understandable but regrettable that .
the author continues to single out sensitive issues; i.e.,
assasSination and in this instance CIA involvement in Chile.
‘The information contained in these pages are volatile and .
should not be included in such a commercial venture. Any .

_ such information is liable for quotations out of context — _
warping or reinforcing the involvement that the Agency did :
have in the political activities of Chile. | . ——

' Page 25: For the first time the SSU was made aware of

the daughter of a CIA officer who was stripped naked and held ;
with a knife at her throat by political assassins. If this ;
‘is in fact a true statement, I question the value of such an-
inclusion in this text particularly in light of the terrorism
problems that this Agency and other elements of the U.S.
Government are experiencing around the world.

Page 27: The statement the author makes with regard to |
promotion to GS-17 is not correct. oo oe

, Page 31: I believe that Office of Communications should |

be consulted on the entire section relating to communications,
communications personnel and the Office of Communications,

however, the SSU raises the question concerning the inclusion —
of teletype decoding speeds on this particular page.
‘Chapter 10

Note: Chapter 10 continues in the same vein as all of the

other chapters. It further reinforces the earlier remarks that
the more one tries to explain and clarify a point the more
confusing it becomes. The remarks contained in pages 23 and
24 regarding Chile are illustrative of this. .

‘ ; 5 .

[pv - GONNIDENTIAL . ,

--- Page 7 ---
ee _ 7 CONFIDENTIAL |“ i |
| 4. In summary , the SSU joins those who feel that this
book would better have been left unwritten. It is a text
replete with names, details, operational information and .
close personal privileged information based upon the author's
asSignments which has been rendered into a commercial version
of Mr. Phillips' affiliation with this agency for over 25 .
years. This manuscript reinforces the difficulty of a retired
operations officer to. develop a non-fiction text which is
attractive to the public but does not contain information .
regarding intelligence personalities, organization and sources
‘and methods. ;
(Lat Knee | :
Robert R. Kierce . 7
; Chief
. Special Security Unit, DDO ; Lites
CONFIDENTIAL
