
--- Page 1 ---
‘04-10107-10137 ;
| } OGC 69-0181 |
31 January 1969 |
MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD
; B RETURN TO CIA
. ackground Use Onl
. SUBJECT: Herbert Itkin Do Not Reproduce
1, A meeting was held on 27 January 1969 with Messrs.
Rocca, Houston, Warner and myself to discuss the ramifications ; i
of the confrontation with the New York FBI office on 17 January. |
It was concluded that additiona} information was required on |
03 Thomas L. Roberts) and(R obert Delson>”’ I contacted the Director |.
Security and requested the security files on these two individuals ci
, and was advised that we could not. have the security files but that
Mr. Ward Greene would bring the files to the office and diacuss
their contents openly.
3 2. On 29 Janyary, Mr. Greene brought the security files.
on(R oberts>and (Delon) and was most cooperative in explaining
a7 their contents. Attached is a chronological rundown on the Re
pertinent information on (Thomas L. Roberts) affiliation with
‘the FBI, CIA and Itkin, | 0}
3. On 30 January, a meeting was held,with Mesers. Houston,
Warner, Rocca, and (Eugene Milligan), ccs (-PGLOBE, to discuss
the operational use of Mr. (Robertas5 MriS%{Robert} has been a .
Staff Agent of CIA since 28 August 1961.,, From March 1964 to . i.
Novembe 151964 he spent time in(West Africa) writing a monograph: re
on (West African legal )problems. It should be noted that this .
task was performed under a grant from a foundation which was 03 {
blown in the MHDOWEL exposures, In November 1964 (Roberts)
was assigned for Cover to the (Radio Corporation of Americazy |
legal) staff where he remained until March 1965 and then went
to (Dakar) .
{2-10
|
; |
|
{
|:
SECCET |

--- Page 2 ---
4. The facts in the attached chronology are subject to oe Y
question since they are the result of (RoWerte? own explanation of oe
his affiliation with Itkin rather than having been determined from Ae
independent sources, The most critical aspect would appear to no
be the knowledge or suspicion that Itkin may have known of ee

oF (Roberta) affiliation with CIA, This knowledge is borne out by “ee
the strange way in which Itkin repeatedly brings (Roberts) name . on
into-the story which Itkin develops about his CIA affiliations, ~ -
: One of the questions, to be answered by LABGLOBE personnel is ~
whether or not (Robert) reported his activities with Itkin in Geneva, a
Switzerland, in March 1966. There appears to be no record of z
03(Roberts"\ having explained why he never pursued the Itkin debt or
what his financial contribution was to the (law firm of Itkin, Roberts 4
and Greenbaum.) - o8 ot.
5. Mr. Rocca was advised: by Mr. Sam Papich of the FBI - , on
that the New York District Attorney may be considering prosecution Ps
against (Roberts)for having absconded with funds received from \"
negligence cases. We do. not have sufficient information to evaluate ;
the likelihood of criminal prosecution. It may be necessary to ,
discuss this problem with representatives of Mr. Hogan's office,
06 , ,
. 6. With regard to Robert Délson) there appear to have been ae
on two opérational considerations, one having been a request to use nn
him with Project DTPILLAR from November 1953 to February :
1955, and then a request in 1963 by the Domestic Operations
Division for his use on Project, WUBRINY. In March 1964 DO
Division advised Security that (Delson) was not going to be used
on WUBRINY. Mr. Rocca commented that there are some rather ¢
ominous allegations against members of the firm of @®elson, Levin 2
. and Gordon) indicating that one member of the firm was a card- f
carrying member of the Communist Party. At the present time . 2
Mr. Rocca is investigating the DITPILLAR use of Mr. (Deleon) if
eee JOHN K, GREANEY

° ae 4. Assistant General Counsel

Attachmentry ; |. rc ) b
