
--- Page 1 ---
Tio4-10061-10083)
oat Pie : ;
. ' | Chief of Station, Paris Se ak
| } | | jes ™
, | sumecridalson/URIO
Report of Antonio RODRIGUES Echaszabal
ACTION REQUIRED REFERENCES , 7 es
| REF: DIR 39176, 1 February 1962 .
| 1. As stated in veference, attached for passage to(UNIGS ase two copies
of « report on Antonio RODRIGUES Eghasabal; the original ef this report was
| given to(GNIQ/1) on 6 Fobruary 1962. — —_
| Ze The last paragraph of attachment contadus our request fer the result:
| of the debriefing of Subject. | |
.
| Attackusnts ,
Report (2 es u.s.6.) a |
Distributions , oo
ee ee RS a |
. oe LL | 7 298 a
, . \ CROSS REFERENCE TO DISPATCH BYMEOL AND NUMBER
So de . - CLASSIFICATION ns
2- we/ 3 w/ att | OFFICE ~ OFFICER = ne
* 7 . COORDINATING ,

--- Page 2 ---
14-00000 ;
MEMORANDUM FOR : (M. de Vosjoli? * | ,
SUBJECT : Report on Aatonio RODRIGUEZ Echasabal
Antonio RODRIGUEZ Echaszabal was born in Cuba on 17 August 1913.
He has a master's degree in agriculture, professedly has no religion but
io a Mason. RODRIGUEZ is married to Edith JONES, who was born in
Cuba on 10 March 1917; she is, however, of Haitian origia, being the
daughter of a former Haitian Ambassador to Belgium, and she is a devout
Episcopalian. The couple ie known to have three children: a son who was
last reported to be in Havana, Cuba; a daughter married to a man of
German birth who was employed in the Castro land-reform organization |
uatil his departure for Germaay in December 1961; and a son, Antonio
RODRIGUEZ Jones, bora 24 August 1943 at Havana, who was studying at
, the Ecole Francaise Internationale in Washington, D.C. in 196]. This son
has been reported to be anti-U.5. and to have requested permission of his
father to go to Cuba or to another "socialist'' country to continue his |
pee, RmCathome
| Antonie RODRIGUEZ Jones resided in Washlagtoa, ‘D.C. with Yvoane |
JONES, his-aunt.and sister of the wife of Antonio RODRIGUEZ Echasabal.
oo Mise JONES was bora 10 April 1910 at Antwerp, Belgium; she was unmarri:
and was & secretary at the Pan Americas Health Organization. She became
a U.S. citizen in 1959. ‘Since the Castro zegime has come to power,
‘Mias JONES is said to have spoken quite openly for Castro and against the
U.S. Government. . | , 2
_ RODRIGUEZ lived ta Haiti for about eighteen years prior tothe
: _: _ Commencement af his diplomatic career, having been barred by the Batiot::
" "="... government from returning to Cuba. He became a MWaitian citizen and was
. _ the owner of a Port-au-Prince meat market called "Ki Ose Blanco". Wher
7 Castro assumed power in Cuba, RODRIGUEZ teok over the Cuban Embass;
in Pert-au-Prince in January 1959 after the Batista-appointed officials had
fled to the Derninican Republic. Soon thereafter he was aamed Ambassado:
| Following his appointment to the diplomatic post, RODRIGUEZ continu:
- to maintaia contact with persons ia opposition to President Duvalier of Hal:

--- Page 3 ---
14-00000 ,
. In late July 1959, Haiti was invaded by a small grvap of Cubans, wee "
as a prelude to an invasion of the neighboring Dominican Republic. The
incursion was successfully repelled by the Haitian Government, which
publicly charged RODRIGUEZ with complicity in the raid. RODRIQUEZ the:.
closed the Cuban Embassy and returned to Cuba after selling hie private
property in Haiti. . .
While RODRIGUEZ was atill in Haiti, two attempts were made on his
life. He accused the Trujillo regime in the Dominican Republic and, .
indirectly, the Haitian Goveran.ent of complicity in those attacks.
Ia November 1959, RODRIGUEZ went to Guatemala as Cuban Ambassade:
There, he appeare to have associated freely with pro-Commuaist groups. 1}.
March 1960, he was requested by the Guatemalan Goverament to leavethe
country on the ground that he wae engaging in activities iaimical to the best
interests of Guatemala. |
In November 1960, RODRIGUEZ reported to Karachi, Pakistan, as Cub::
Ambassador. His wife accompanied him there and served as his chief .
- secretary. During the initial months of hie tour there, his closest relation.
. _ia the diplomatic colony were with officials of the Belgian Embassy, __
) ' presumably as a result.of the fact that. Belgium had represented Cubs when
- ,there was no Cuban representative in Karachi. During 1961, however, his
-... .... , Communist diplomatic personnel, .
In late 1961, when RODRIGUEZ apparently had decided to defect, he
confided to an acquaintance in the diplomatic colony that he was finished
. “with politics and wanted to devote the rest of his life to agriculture. He he:
at the time to go to the Dominican Republic or to another, unspecified Sout!
American nation. At the time of his departure from Karachi by alr for
Germany in early 1962, RODRIGUEZ reportedly made only a very limited
statement at the airport regarding his defection. The event apparently |
a _  . wecelved very little, if any, press notice in Pakistan. ; .
novos > °°. Ineuffieleat information exists at present to permit a determiaation ae :
Set sas ss the gemuimeness. of RODRIGUEZ's disaffection with the Castro regime. Fo:
- reasons which have aot as yet been fully. reported, the Departmest of State
. . denied a visa to RODRIGUEZ, apparently after he had made the decision tc
. .. .. , resign hie post in Pakistan. We understand, howevor, that, following his
. - ae Citizen of UU0a

--- Page 4 ---
14-00000

oh Sessa. i
‘arrival in France in January 1962, he received permission from Preach ™ m. .
authorities to travel to and resides in Martinique. It appears that he left = -

. France on 31 January 1962 en route to Martinique. , —

oO This service would appreciate having the results of any debriefing ‘of . :

ee RODRIGUEZ by french authorities; with particular reference to the reasons
Som for his resignation and his plans for the future. :
