
--- Page 1 ---
104-10106-10105
Ln ee SECRET
_ 3. Gnckereund Uses Ony
| Chapter 3
Page 13 - Refers to deep cover personnel income
offset against CIA salary and to CIA
oe officers under light cover protected
by diplomatic or official passports.
Page 14 - Refers to laundering of CIA salary
, before deposit to personal bank .
account.
r
SECRET

--- Page 2 ---
_ Chapter 5 ,
Contains detailed references throughout ‘to Winston
. Scott, identified as chief of station, Mexico City... a
Central Cover Staff. points out that Mr. Scott, who. was. OO .
never officially acknowledged as a CIA employee, retired ~
under State Department cover in Mexico, where he subse- .
quently died and where his widow and children still
: reside. . .
_ . _ . , .

--- Page 3 ---
Chapter 7
-Page 29 et. seq. - Discussion vy SOVer
Pages 44-49 - Identifies ("Camp Perry") as a CIA CO
, ; training establishment, discusses
training cover and Department of | )
Defense cover. Central Cover Staff
_ assertsggthat while the CIA auspices :
of Camp! Peary Shas been often alleged
in e press, the Agency has never
. confirmed it as a fact.
oe
H SECRET :

--- Page 4 ---
7 € SECRET
- 6 - a
Chapter 8 : ,
Pages 2, 3 - Discussion of cover. .
Page 4 - Reference to CIA/State ground rule )
that ambassadors are not necessarily
informed about deep cover officers.

--- Page 5 ---
- 7- . . . .
Chapter 9
Page 37 - As written, passage in first full para- .
graph could endanger a particular source,
. , according to NE Division, which suggests ©
; the following modification: .
; ...unexpected development. From sur-
veilling the group's movements it. was °
established that the intention was to
; ; ; travel to an adjoining area, where a
' major energy installation, we assumed,
might be their target. CIA, through _
liaison, warned the authorities of that
country and appropriate defense measures
were taken. J_instructed the CIA Station
in Costa Bravato advise the president
; . that the | ,terr ists might be using his
. country as‘... .
“pl — SECRET

--- Page 6 ---
| _ g- | r
Pages 38-41:
LA Division recommends that the passage on the ter-
rorist kidnapping in the Dominican Republic: be deleted . ae
for the following reasons: : .
1) This incident is still fresh in the minds -
of most Dominicans and it is unrealistic to assume
that it will not be picked up and published in the .
local press. Barbara Hutchison, USIA, one of the
people kidnapped, is still in the Dominican Republic
and, according to two recent reports, is again being
ss considered as a target for kidnapping. The potential |
for terrorist acts against US citizens continues; oo
three leaders of terrorist-oriented groups are in
prison and publication of this item could propel the. .
-terrorists into action. © - -
, 2) ‘The close link between the ambassador and ;
the station, as portrayed in the book could be pre-
judicial to his public image and might even provoke
; the terrorists to target against him. y
be 2
‘ 3) The station has renewed a (liaison relation-
ship and much effort is being directed toward deve-
a lo ing, putual confidence. Revelation of details of
; a (joint operation )by a former division, chief might
lead the increasingly friendly (liaison ‘contact9 to
- wonder whether we can maintain confidence on future
operations and thereby throw the new relationship
into jeopardy.
4) Although the bugging of the thermos was
discovered and appeared in the press, the use of
the Coca Cola case was not exposed and.therefore
continues to be an operational possibility, at. least
as far as the Dominican Republic is concerned. | ;
Revelation of the technique by Agee should not be
a criterion for further disclosure.
