
--- Page 1 ---
‘oa~t0082-t0082)
AED ey
Me PNDETRD SUVERS DEPAR TALE NG OF FUSbECE
. Suir , FLORAL BOREAL OF INVESTIGATION :
a, Kevark, Neve derscy
In Reply, Please Refer ee August 16, 1969 ——— °
SATARO EON Agprinosa. BONET?
NK T-1, a Cuban refugee viho is in a position to
ae - furnish reliable information, advised as follows:
e
. - On August 4, 1969, the source was contacted
by telephone at his place of employment in Carlstadt, Now Jersey;
, by Lazare Eddy Espinosa Bonet, Third Secretary to the OO
. Cuban Mission to the United Nations (CMUN). Espinosa~
requested the source to mect him at 11:G0 AM, August 5}
VSS, on the corner of Bronx Park Kast and Allerton ~ -
Avenud, Bronx, New York, The source went to designated
meet areca on August S, 1969, arriving at approximately -
+0: 50 AM and-rewaining until 11:25 AM. No attenpt to}
- Contact source was made during that interval.
; On August 1), 1969, source's wife received a
telephone call at the source's hone, bn Union City; New,
Jersey, from an individual who did not identify himself.
A. message was left for source which instructed him to
. appear at the previously sientioned meet location at a
“Yi700 AM, August 12,: 1969. .
The source arrived at the meet site at the
, interscction of Bronx Pa¥k East and” Allerton Avenue,
) Bronx, New York, at appronimately 10130 AN, whereupon he
. Was immediately contacted by ESpinosa, who had been
, waiting in a parked car on Allérton Avenue.” Espinosa
; and source proceeded on foot a short distance tosard the
interior of Bronx Patk and sat down on the grass in a” -
Shady area. ‘Espinosa took out from a small handbag which
s he was carrying a Sony Miniature; Tape Recorder which
measured approximately 9 inches by 4 inches by 3 inches.
The tape recorder was placed betucen the tuo On the grass
as they talked. The source observed approximately 20 small
reels of tape. in the bag carricd by Espinosa, -
fe gw Be be a Afr” GRU rol -¥ 16439
AL. Excluded fron automatic
EKA Then th ia i ae downerading and
CN > YT 7 declaussificnation
f ~ . ne t at ,
. aS. €C.¢7 S
, H+ S6!

--- Page 2 ---
14-00000

During the ensuing conversation which lasted

St from 10:30 AM until 7:20 PU, the source counted three

a or four reels of tape utilized by. Espinesayand each reel :
would recora for about cue houx, or approximately thirty.
minutes on each side. ‘ESpinosa,; whose true identity had ,

ot not been revealed to the source, requested hin to call | -

him “Ksteban." Referrivs to a report prepared. by source —

: and deft at a drop site in Union City, New Jorsey, om , ,

. May 15, 1969, Espinosa. stated that the report had bcen .
poorly prepared and lacked necessary detail. He directed

the source to be more specific and thorough in ansvering

- 8 ' any questions for future reports. co

- ; e ‘Espinosa: proceeded to review with the source

re the information furnished by source in the previous report.
end ‘Espindsa was quick to cite any small discrepancy between
eu) 6 6the information contained in the report and that which was So
So furnished by the source during their conversation, - ,
a \Espinosa ‘queried the source in connection with
- {Individuals in Miami with whom the source had been familiar. |
; The questions concerning these individuals included their
- current addresses, general background and sympathies, ,
activity in Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) operations,
. etc, ,
; bea Espinosa displayed a photograph of (First Name —
Unknown) Mellado and asked source if he recognized him,
\Mellado: was: described as male, of Caucasian race, who
an appeared to be Cuban, 32-35 years old, husky build, dark
coe hair and dark eyes. The source could not recognize the
individual photographed. .
oo , CES pifiosa, made several inquiries about “Frank",

oo a non-existent individual who the source intentionally
a, included in his prior report as a principal agent for CIA,
oe, The source advised ‘Espinosa that he met "Frank™ on only .
oe two or three occasions and knew nothing more specifically
a about him. noe

While the source was answering a question 7 |

concerning an individual named "Piche'", Espinosa inadvertently
referred to’ "Piche" as Epifanio Romero, which the source

ao knew as the true name of “'Piche," | Romero «is known by

) ‘ESpinosa. to have been previously neces with CIA

Bowe SECRET ,
2

--- Page 3 ---
14-00000
Y ; | | ; .
a en rT tn nema ceece are eee te? Fama mes ree ads Stren arnt . . ee eee e
oe Operations in Africapas well as the Miami area, He vas
: especially interested in whether the souxvce knew any ,
i dates of forthconing infiltration runs into Cuba in which
 Rowerg might be involved.
a ) cESpinosi mentioned Raw) Villaverdé and asked uf
eo _ the source if Nataer Villaverde is the brother of Raul, x
He further guestioned the source vhether or not Ratt .
Lo: is still a CYA instructor in the use of explosives.
oy The fact that (aukh Was in any way connected with instruction
ae in the use of explosives was never mentioned previously
Se _ by source in his report and must have been obtained by...
oe - <Espincsa: from other sources. .
Od The source happened to mention (La 03a", a
ws - Mickname for a past team member for infiltration runs
wad ito Cubs. Referring to WLa Osa", Espinosa interrupted ,
Se . Mand stated "ON, Filiberto Leou Delgado," Source had
a forgotten the true nawe of “ha Osa" and said that. this
oe ideutity must have been firnished to ‘Espinosa through a
other sources, - oO .
a _Also asked of the source was whether VYusto >
uis Liorétt, a colleasue of source, was still operating
a, for CiA. The source replicd he did not know, inasmuch as
he had been too long removed from Miami area to be accurate
c in his reply. -
oo, ‘Espinosa made inquiries on the following
individuals with whom the source had becn thought to
associate in Miami area; specifically, he wanted to know
- any background information and whether or not the individuals
Do were being directed by CIA: | ;
oe Otto (hast Name Unknown), previously of
Oe operational interest to CIA in the Miami area.
Oo . J savier Souto, previously a principal agent
in the Miami area for CIA.
) ; » wagar Sopo, active in anti-Castro radio
; broadcasts fo Cuba from the Miami area,
an Manuel Artines, a leader in Bay of Pigs
Invasion and subsequently connected with anti-Castro
organizations, including MRR.
3 SECRET

--- Page 4 ---
14-00000
rn performed sntiltration eperations oo
into Cubs with cource., (Espinens Gpucivichlly indiested that .
, Beurce UAC te &ttcnpt to make contaet wath  Uallon to gat any _
oo $uformacion of valuc whom in tho Udeuni aren. ;
ok ” Xie. rafeol Lolinte Eslvucede, previously
attachcd to tneli-Castro mevermcnts tnd f&llcecd to be .
of cporttional valuc to CIA. ;
oe we Yindres Neosere, known by Fepinced: te have -
a participated in CIA dirccted operations in Africa. Scurce
Co was dircetcd te Gpoeifically contact -Reicrg for any inforna-
oo tion of value pertaining to CIA activity when in the Misnl
oe “ £4N Caridsd Gonsales Mschin, involved vith .
oo oneal trae runs. From Cuba. -
Wrerstarte vsdendsy & cousin of source Who. L~
Do lives in VWehezucla, &® brother of fAdolfe Dzlsaco who was
‘killed jn 1957 duving an pssault on the Estista Palace
din cuba. He is thought by the cource to be & communist.
Source furnished little information regarding
the above individuals and used @s @n excuse that althougn
he was on clese terrs with most of then, he bis had little mo,
or no coutact with then since leaving the Miani erea,
7 ; Of all the individuals naned by Espinosa, he
/ Appeared nost concerned in obtaining eny information on
; Dr. Cesar Baro tnd Dr. Fernindo Cabez2s,. Both individuals
oo, ‘Raid been aScociates ef the sourcd in Eavana sud Cabezas
- had worked with the source in Havana, He advised Espinosa
that altheyvgh both are known to be anti-Castro, he did not
' feel either had any connection with CIA,
: 4 . SECRET

--- Page 5 ---
14-00000 -
7 . Qn Ot Lunt threa occasions, Fopinesn auhod ,
3 the courca about the detrca af Llucucy c2 the Lsttar's
mo spelen Gud written Maghich end aeahed if be is able tea
oO relate vith Avcorienn3., He wae ceoutucly dnuproseed vken
; the Gourea agnovcred effiri tively Cud cuylsinod that he
DO pad attended wight Cehcel in the New dorsioy area.
7 WSpinesa averied the source ebeout sono ;
he Jufhidteation runs into Cuba that the ccuree had led,
Tes . sEspinccamenticened spoeesific runs in which the courec
cod particaplvcd which bud net boou mentiaicd previourly
tae! by the rource. Ho seaned te be very well prepared and
Poe eave tic inpressian that. ho knew the tnsvers te all the ;
OE questicnue Girected at the sevree. Ho was interested in _ :
io any prcblenc that the sceurce's te2u might have expericnced
oe When centering and Yorvine Cuba. during CYA opsraticns. 7
; Ne inquired cbout the centrol methods ef CYA _
a infilteation teans, whether members ef the tcaus vere
ee ever curvcilled in the United States, the chain of command |
a for a teem, and to when tean leaders ropert. The scurca
oe anewerced thet exch rerber wis reeponsiblie cnly to himself,
re CONCCIMEDE Hocurity reiecs-—ea_the nother vessel during , .
oa dnti1tration and exfiltration cpsraticnas, the souree Stated
that cach tetas Letcér Was" responsible for the perferminceJ
a £ his ttan and each tean menbor was held responsible. for
ar : . Source Was requested to identify any mother
vessel, the bases fro. which they operate, and the crew
a menbars., The source siated he could nat answer these
Te aucstions duc to the lencth of tine passed since the source
ST was conicetea with CIA operations in Miani.
Se ‘The source was further questioned rerarding tho
, netheds of infiltration into Cuba,
. weosol, intermediary vessels, landing crafts, and the .
. ' establishrient of intelligence nets inside Cuba. Apparently
ae noting that the source was not furnishing full details of
aoe the question, tEspinces>y interxsupted and requested tke
aoe source to verity @2pincewia) oxplanc tion. (Espinosa proceeded
an to relate concisely the plans and methods utilized in CIA
operations.
| § SECRET oo

--- Page 6 ---
14-00000
LAZARG BEDY ESVIROSA! RONET SECRET

Askea hon teams vere sable to build sheds

and Jiviang quarters dn the pinsreve Casteps inside of

Cuba viithout being naticed by natives in the sane area,
the source veplicd thet everyone in the vicinity of the
infjhireation peints: vere syvpathetic ta the teans. The
source expletired that once porsen in charge of &n Ghocevation
post apprenaintely ono mile avey frou one infiltration
point cooperated with the teans and was leter taken out
of Cuba by the source.

Espinosa asked if there are still any collaborators
or persous sympathetic to the United Siates Government on
the Cuban conet with when the infiltrators worked, Source
replied that to his knovledsre a1) these uho vere of
assistance have been eithex jailed or killed,

, Espinogs Vas also concerned about the \
employuent oF CIA persenncl] in the Meys off of Florida
and asked the source ag to why CYA would maintain personnel
in that aren. Source stated he did not know unless it
was to guard against infiltration by Cuban fishing vessels.

Questioned again about his ressons for
cooperating with the CHUN, the source replicd that he is
an individuzl complctely independent of any political
belie?. He said that he vas initially motivated against
the regime of Fidel Castro beeause he had secn his parents
work herd and save for <0 years in order to afford a feu
luxurics in their later lives, only to see the Cuban
Governnent intervene and clauin possession of everything,
includines their howe. He further explained that it
appears the United States will never force Castro out of
Cuba but that the fact remains he is Cuban and Cuba is
his fatherland. He said he is willing te cooperate only
to the extent that his parents will receive fair treatment

from the Cuban Governncnt.

Espinesa had information that the source was
suspected at one tine by Cubans in Miami of possibly
being connected with the Cuban G-2, which information
ceused a United States Government investigation, Source
replied tnat this was probably due to his nusiber of
successful runs into Cuba without incident which proupted
Others to suspect he had to have connections with G-2,

6 SECRET

--- Page 7 ---
14-00000
On one run, the sansce uns out of contact with CIA for
teb Gays Vhbich aeced fuvriher to the peusazbility that he
had cither Cefectad cr ves Worring with G2, Host of the
rumore vere cuolicd herusver when he subnitted to a CIs
lie detector test Viich reculted nevatively. He credited
his ability te aveid cubucshes and misfortune to the experience
; he had in infiltration czercises as well as extensive
CIA training.
, Approuiuatezy ene bali haw: of the neeting
betvicen the source aud Espinose entaLicd ascertaining the
proficiencies oF the source in the trekugig: of dcmolitious
radio Operuthon, Veapoary, seauanshbip, cte., thich he
received from CIA. Nothing Vas montioncd concerning any
intentions by CHUN to utilize the source in connection
with any of his previously mentioned fields of training.
The seurce informed Espinesa that he had been x
contacted since their last mecting by Jose Ramon Erues, _
who is currently reorgenizing the Vanruardia Revolucionaria
Cubana, an anti-Castro organization, The source has bean
designated by Eguecs to lead the military fnction of the
Organisation, It Vas cxplained to Espinosa: that Egues has
f£0als of ultimately bombing the CHUN at New York City by
neans as yet not disclosed to the source. The scurce tias
instructed that in the future he is to spend as much time
as pessible with Egues in determining that organization's
plans of action against the CNUN and Government of Cuba,

At diffcrent times throughaut the meeting,

Espinosa was observed to lean baci! on the ground which
exposed a weapon tucked inside his trousers at the waist,
which tias described by the source to be a biack Waltham
9HN Automatic Pistol.

At a point of about tvo hours through the
intervicv, Espinesa tock the source on foot to the Allerton
Luncheonetic at 649 Allerton Avenue, where each bought

a fountain crink,. While the source sat at the bar,
Espinosa «cnt into one of the tuo telephone booths located
nearest the rear wall of the lLuncheaonctte. He was in the
booth about 3G seconds but did not make a call. He did
not indicat«c his reason for entering the booth. Finishing
their drink, they returicd to a shady area in the same section
. ry ,

--- Page 8 ---
14-00000
se LU Be Se Drevin e
of the payin tod Gqenthhucd thety discussion, At this
PoINe the Ooaree netcd gor the fayrnt tara & parcan of
Cubsin &pucaeanean obttirg ga & nearby pails benah whe
revsaned dn the fren thresh the cniaivo vectine. ‘the
BGueee Cueplot]ed thig po wien es bolthe comceted with
counter Lurvedld lance of the pmoatine,

Espanecns grccructed the seurce to prornre in
report Poni: the Groves te the eceond portion of theo
dace oF Gucctélows furnished to the lettes on ley 18, 1869. |
Whe Cesvons Re rovort coum &roe te ba pleced in fn cipty
Cigarette peekase Gnd drapacd @t¢ 21:00 AN cn 4ercunt 20,
16S, or Avuxust GA, 1665, bohind Gn dren pate fence at ;
the horthvcst correr Gf Lraenx Fark Rast at Allerton Avenue, |
from tvo to five foot nerth cof the cenerete stare pillar
which fichorg the fFonec. ‘The Gource is te return to the
drop site at 1:60 Mi to cheek if the drop was covered,
Two dates fer the pachup were previced in the event there |
were teo rany povreens in thet arca to rick covering tho
arop,

Espanena ached the source if he vould ke
aprecable to go te Maud fer @ routh in @nveffurt to |
contact frdencs fund ouelosesiates of CIA. The source
stated he wes not, in view of his family and ecnyloyiment
oDligatianus, but tgererd to go fer & short pericd, possibly
three or four ciys. Espduccse told hin that while in
Mhauid, the sourco's micsion would consist of doternining
current @ctivitses of the Cla, identities of tay new CIA
tess, Jeentiticn ef Goveruient vozcels currently in or
out of cervice, nev princioal agents, CIA instructors,
ang eny CIA activities inclucing the eepheynont of Cubans
to South Arerican regions for CIA cperations,.

Yne cate @grecd upon on which source will go
to Miami ds Auguct 25, 1659, but the cource will indicate
to Espinosa jin tha report te be left at the next drop that

he w3.1l Geliy hic doparture until SaturdrAy norning,
August 30, 1269, jn eréer to pick up his next pay check,
and wild vot return until Tucaday morning, Soptenber 2, 1969.
The source vos instructed by Espanesa to meet hin Solleving
his vetusi to New gJoreey at 11:06 All on Sopteuber 17 or
Septcmbros 420, 1059, at the interscetion of Gun Nill Read and
White Plhins Read, Nev York, at which tins results of the
Mieni mitsion will be dicclered,
8 SECRET
®

--- Page 9 ---
14-00000
a

Tue eovrec cuceected thet the ment woctixes
take place in Carlstadt, Neu Jersey, to which succestion
Espinosa weplicd lie Goss not like to schedule teetings .
in Now derscy unless ehsolutely nescuscry.

This document contains ncither recanmendations

per conclesicua oF the PBY. Yt is the property of the Fsy
and 3s loaned to yous ercncy: it end its cantents are
not to be distributed cutside your arency.
? _ . lf
ge SECR:.T
