
--- Page 1 ---
’ ;
18 July 1963
MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Support Branch
FROM : Mr. Ramon R. Hart
, SUBJECT : Manuel F. ARTIME Buesa
#210 838
1. The first phase of the audio surveillance of the
Subject at the SAS safehouse in Bethesda has been completed.
The Subject left Washington, D. C., on 13 July 1963. ‘The
owner of the listening post, Mr.( PHGGNGsRUDIRy@dir.:, ~
moved out of his house, bag, baggage, and furniture, on
12 July 1963 enroute to an overseas PCS assignment.
2. Mr. Charles MATT, the case officer in this case, has
advised that the Subject, along with a Cuban companion, Mr.
Rafael Aurelio QUINTERO Ibarbia (#252 529), will return to
Washington, D. C., to be billeted in the Bethesda safehouse on
Monday, 29 July 1963. Mr. MATT has fervently requested audio
coverage of the downstairs bar and telephone and the main floor
, living room at this house in order to monitor the Subject's
conversations with QUINTERO during the absence of SAS case
officers.
4 3. The case was assigned to the District Field Office,
’ and Special Agent Gnathinin E2253. Was designated as responsible
‘bes /To agent. It is Agent @2PEseRN plan to place microphones in the
) > sees downstairs bar and the main floor living room and a tap on the
id EDO / LOSE telephone and string all the wires to a crawl space over the
| lacse-tagk garage. In that latter space, which will be kept locked, he will
. 4 lores | set up two regular AC-operated tape recorders to be actuated by
? andere i-wehe two VOR's obtained from Franconia and paid for by SAS. Un-
on be #eknown to the Subject and his companion, a case officer will
: Kaave to service this equipment whenever an opportunity presents
} UCN itself.
i lion. % | mel i
; : xofods ma automatic :
a ceslacsitiestion | :

--- Page 2 ---
5 \ : . . roe
os SECRET 7?
, mk |
Page Two
#210 838 ,
4, The cover story to be used by Agent @OEREEER during
the installation is that he is working on thé housé at the
request of the leasor, Washington real estate agent, Mr./ es’
CORES TEES. Mr, MBAS) supposedly maintains
the house for a New York lawyer in‘ ordér to billet the latter's
transient clients. Case Officer MATT has engaged a maid to
clean up the house Mondays and Thursdays; however, she can be
told to stay away if Agent/' GEESE needs to do work there on
those days. It was also discreetly requested by the undersigned
of Case Officer MATT not to kibbitz too mich while the techni-
cians are making the installation.
5. It is expected that the audio results of this type
of coverage will be superior to the results of the previous
"yadio" phase. The only complication will be in servicing the
recorders on a timely basis. —,
” - ’ 4
~ Ramon R. Hart
cc: #252 529
SECRET . |
