
--- Page 1 ---
Vost008s"i0260) SY
ar Chief, Haw Grieans Office
Zeciel :
EEN The irformation Council of the Anericas, 520 Gravier Street,
. Hew Orleans, Louisiana 70136 ;
; Ref. : NO-152-65, Support Branch (Richardson) memo of 20 Apri (385, HO-151-65
Co 1. The tnformation Council of the Americds (INCA) Of 620 Gravier Street, -
sG New Orleans, Louistana, was recently opened as a source of foreign Intelligence
OR information on the radio broadcasting industry itn Latin America. The current
wd program of INCA ts primarily concerned with the dissemination of taped record-
Sex. ings of anti-Communist material, called Truth Tapes, to certain radio broad-

HESS casting stations in Latin America and North America for use as a weapon ayjainst
“Ss Communist penetration in the Americas. tts headquarters are tocated at 620 .
SS Gravier Street, Hew Orleans, Louisiana 70130. You will find the names of its
: officers, directors, and consultants given on the enclosed letterhead of the.

organization. oo
. A. J 21:40
2. We have been in recent contact with Edward Scannell’ Butler, Executive
. Vice President and Staff Director, and have received his assurances of whole- = |
hearted cooperation in our agency's mission. {Yesterday we examined all of the
ar files of correspondence between Mr. Butler and personnel of various radio-  ~- °
SS stations in 16 Latin American countries.| In order to build up a market for
; the Truth Tapes program in Latin America, Mr. Butler first obtained from the
appropriate consul in New Orleans a list of the radio stations in operatisn in
his country. He next wrote the administrative personnel of these stattons
about the anti-Communist purpose of INCA and offered to supply each station
- with Truth Tapes. Those stations requesting them were then provided with a .
series of the tapes. One or two years later, Mr. Sutter sent the participating
Bees] station a questionnaire designed to elicit information. about audience respanse
Ete to the Truth Tapes program. Copies of the first questionnaire and of a revised
pe one are attached for your information. Judging by the responses we read, the
{NCA correspondence files will provide a limited amount of information; dated
so i304 and 1355, on the identification of radio stations in Latin America which
are broadcasting Truth Tapes, their addresses, ihe names of key sersonnel, the ~
identification of stations not respondine to the INCA offer, sizes of sudiences,
and their cesponses. tn the case gi-Urusvay, the exchange of correspondence
betweeniMr, Butler and [Dr. Martin MT queo-Narancio fontained information abdeut
; the political orientation Gf Key radia personnel “tn Montevideo /0-10671E/.
This examole, towever, is an exception, since the files contain virtually no
detailed political information of significance,
Lf SF ;
ccs 4 . an em S072 FULL TEXT €6°Y -- BO.HOT RELEASE
, RETURN TO CIA .
. . Background Use Only ( ,
. Do Net Reproduce ee

--- Page 2 ---
card Pa ee - . é po. oo. .
* ; . ~ ;
at Chief, Cantact divisian ~ Ron 5 May 1355
Atitns NonSov dios vAvrez
fod 3. Mer. Sutter mentioned yesterday that, tmasmuch as he was again ravising
as the guestiosnaire, be would wejcone our su;gestions about additionst topics. We
Ror id * 4 : - A . e. : : « . te : «
as . .sugsested questions designed to elicic technical information about ‘the station
Baas oe and its equipment, such as descriptions (manufacturer, type, model) of trans~
ae mitter, receiver, antenna type and power, frequencies and frequency range, reli-
re ability of equipment, normal and emergency power sources, remote pick-up arrange-
an nents, etc. We stressed of course that none of these topics should be introduced
oe into the questionnaire unless Mr. Butler was convinced of their suitability for ~
Pl, his immediate purpose as well as for the long-term propaganda alm of his organi .
a zation. He stated that our suggestions were entirely proper and, in his opinion,
mo were reasonable requests that would not arouse the station manager's curiosity.
We pointed out to Mr. Butler that, while information fabout key personnel and
ee their political orientation); about the station's administrative policies, etc.,
Seay - was of prime importance to us, these subjects obviously could not be introduced
SES into the questionnaire, He agreed that [t would be better to elicit such infor-
OES “mation in another manner, as he had done with(ir. Miqueo-Narancio,Pout because .
oS of his very heavy responsibilities, he did not hava time-to-devefop similar .
‘sources of information in each of the other 15 countries. ; .
4, tt occurs to us that you or a possible consumer could assist us by
; suggesting other appropriate topics for Mr. Butler's consideration in the revision
ae of the questionnaire. We shall appreciate whatever help you can give us In this
regard.
| 5. in the meantime, as soon as all of Mr. Sutier's current correspondence
nas been properly filed, we expect to extract the aupprooriate information from
the folders and to present the material in a series of 69-B reports. ©
es LLOYD A. RAY
eee DABrandao/gn )
Enclosures .
“ce? Services Branch .
\ —_ A . _ :
