
--- Page 1 ---
_ | ‘ ‘ ‘s . 4 This notice expires. 28 September 1977.
DON 1-1462
DDO NOTICE ORGANIZATION
NO. 1-162 29 September 1976
REORGANIZATION OF THE STAFF STRUCTURE
OF THE OPERATIONS DIRECTORATE
1. PURPOSE
This notice announces the reorganization of the Operations
Directorate staff structure, effective 1 October 1976, and
. outlines the functions of the new and the redesignated
staff components. The new staff organization supersedes
that established by the Deputy Director for Operations (DDO)
on 28 June 1973 and as modified in the interim period. It
is the first step of a three-phase, long range reorgani-
zation program designed to enable the Directorate to conform
to the perceptions of the Executive and the Congress as to
the Directorate's role, to adjust flexibly to changing
strategies and priorities, and to make most efficient use of
personnel and material resources allocated to accomplish the
Directorate's mission. ,;
2. GENERAL
"The Headquarters organization of the Operations Directorate
is comprised of the Office of the DDO and its special staffs,
the Senior Staffs, and the Area and Functional operating
Divisions. (See Figure 1, attached.)
3. OFFICE OF THE DDO
The following staff elements are attached to the Office of :
the DDO, and report directly to him and/or the Associate
Deputy Director for Operations (ADDO).
a. Assistant Deputy Director for Operations for
Development (ADDO/D) (When approved by DDCI)
The ADDO/D will direct and supervise the establish-
ment of a Clandestine Corps responsible for the
recruitment, training and dispatch of nonofficial
cover officers to foreign areas, and for efforts to
develop new techniques, methods and equipment for
nonofficial cover operations.
SECRET

--- Page 2 ---
14-00000 — .
DON 1-1462
DDO NOTICE ORGANIZATION
NO. 1-162 29 September 1976
b. Associate General Counsel to the DDO (AGC/DDO)
The AGC/DDO is detailed by the Agency's General os
Counsel to provide advice and assistance to the
Operations Directorate. He will work directly
with the ADDO.
¢c. Evaluation and Program Design Staff (EPDS)
The EPDS will
(1) Design and maintain continuous data on funds,
positions, personnel on duty and other such
management information as is required by the
DDO and the Comptroller of the Agency.
(2) Maintain continuous knowledge of the state
or condition of operational activities and
achievements, and support activities planned
and in progress, including resources used,
efforts undertaken, and results.
(3) Prepare periodic evaluations of component
programs against objectives including the
need for requested resources, evaluations
of past results, and projections of future
results.
(4) Monitor all data collection for purposes of
identifying statistical evidence of problems,
identifying areas requiring management attention i
by the DDO, and providing data to be used for
internal and external presentations.
(5) Review all Operational Activity (OP ACT) approvals
to ensure compliance with Agency and Directorate
regulations, and prepare staff recommendations
on Operational Activities which require DDO
approval or attention.
(6) Provide staff assistance to the DDO on Directorate,
Agency, Community and Government data requirements,
techniques and regulations pertaining thereto.
2
SECRET

--- Page 3 ---
14-00000 ots
re @ _'. SECRET @ :
. DON 1-1462
DDO NOTICE ORGANT ZATION
NO. 1-1462 29 September 1976
(7) Undertake special studies as directed of manage-
ment issues which affect the efficiency or
effectiveness of Directorate activities.
(8) Provide staff assistance to the DDO on Directorate,
Agency, Community and Government evaluation
requirements, techniques, and regulations pertinent
thereto.
(9) Continue to develop production and evaluation
techniques and values.
d. Policy and Coordination Staff (PCS)
The mission of the Policy and Coordination Staff is to
serve as the focal point through which the DDO directs
and controls certain activities of the Directorate
crossing geographic divisional boundaries. It also will
assist in formulating and recommending to the DDO policy '
and doctrine on matters with overall applicability to
_ the Directorate. The Chief of this Staff will act for
the DDO and the ADDO if these officers are unavailable.
The responsibilities of this staff will include all ;
intelligence-related matters including staff guidance
on scientific and technical matters and such activities
as crisis management, international terrorism, narcotics, |
technical operations, and defector operations. Addition- |
ally, the Staff is the focal point for Directorate coor-
_ dination with the Intelligence Community Staff, the |
National Intelligence Officers, other components of the ~
Agency, as well as with other agencies of the Government.
The Staff will also be responsible for conducting and |
monitoring liaison with the principal elements of the |
Intelligence Community. It will be responsible for
ensuring that the operations and activities of the
Directorate are in compliance with existing regulations
and procedures, and for formulation or revision of
regulations and procedures as may be required. In
short, this Staff will coordinate the paper flow of. the
Deputy Director for Operations and in so doing serve as
a central clearing house for the movement of paper from |
the Staffs and Divisions to the Office of the DDO. This
Staff also will provide policy focus to issues of common
concern affecting Directorate-wide activities. It will
also provide the support facilities for the DDO's
special and Senior Staffs. ;
3 ,
SECRET

--- Page 4 ---
14-00000 "ot . |
: ue @ SECRET. @ ne
. DON 1-1462
DDO NOTICE ORGANI ZATION
NO. 1-1462 29 September 1976
e. Senior Review Officers (SRO)
The responsibilities of the Senior Review Officers
are described in DOT 5-14.
f. Special Assistant for External Oversight (SA/DO/O)
The responsibilities of the SA/DO/O are described in
DON 1-129.
g. DDO Duty Office (DDODO) (Not shown on Figure 1)
The responsibilities of the DDODO are described in
4, SENIOR STAFFS
a. Career Management Staff (CMS)
The Career Management Staff will be responsible for
staff advice and support to the DDO on all
matters related to organization, manpower planning, ;
: personnel management and administration, and training.
It will provide staff direction and supervision to
personnel management and administration throughout
the Directorate, and is responsible for ensuring
compliance with related Agency and DDO directives and
procedures as well as applicable Government rules and
regulations.
b. Central Cover Staff (CCS)
The mission and functions of the Central Cover Staff
remain as prescribed in DOI 1-21 for the former Cover
and Commercial Staff.
ec. Covert Action Staff (CAS)

(1) The Covert Action Staff will provide policy
coordination, guidance and support for Directorate
covert action operations. It will be the office
of record and clearing house for all external
policy clearance of covert action operations and
programs. Its specialized services and operations
support responsibilities will include

) SECRET

--- Page 5 ---
14-00000 . :
tt | GC SECRET @
" DON 1-1462
DDO NOTICE ORGANIZATION
NO. 1-1462 29 September 1976
(a) issuance of propaganda guidances and related
background;
(b) production of tailored, non-attributable
. media and other background materials in
support of authorized covert action operations;
(c) advice, guidance and operational support in
the fields of black propaganda and deception
operations; and
(a4) support to and participation in Agency covert
' action training programs.
(2) The special operations mission and functions of
the CAS are as prescribed in DOI 1-17 for the
Special Operations Group, with the addition of a
Special Operations Intelligence Center, which
will provide crisis management support to the
0/DDO and area divisions, particularly Order of
Battle and briefing aid support; U.S. mission
evacuation planning and support (including CIA
representation in the Washington Liaison Group);
. ‘and all-source intelligence, special operations
research and graphics support to S50G.
d. Counterintelligence Staff (CIS)
The responsibilities of the Counterintelligence Staff
remain as set forth in DON 1-1339, with the exception
of paragraphs 2.f.(3) and 3.d. of that notice as they
relate to conduct of deception operations. (See also
h.c.(1)(c), above.) ,
e. Information Services Staff (ISS)
(1) Manage the Operations Directorate's records and
information control system.
(2) Maintain the foreign counterintelligence index
for the United States Government.
(3) Oversee Directorate compliance with laws, orders,
and regulations regarding recordkeeping.
5 :
SECRET

--- Page 6 ---
14-00000 - . : .
° : DON 1-1462
DDO NOTICE ORGANIZATION
NO. 1-1462 29 September 1976
(4) Provide career development services and training
for records management, computer and micrographics
specialists assigned to the Directorate.
(5) Serve as the Directorate focal point for Privacy
Act and Freedom of Information Act matters, and
other litigation involving Directorate information,
and handle and coordinate all Privacy Act and FOIA
' requests addressed to the Operations Directorate. |
f. International Activities Staff (IAS)
The International Activities Staff will be responsible
for ,
. (1) Monitoring the activities of and developing
operations into the permanent staffs of world-
wide organizations, including
. (a) the United Nations and its specialized
agencies;
(bo) the international staff of Communist .
parties; .
(c) foreign labor organizations that are
international in scope; :
(a) ‘Treaty organizations, such as NATO and ,
. the EC;
(e) foreign multilateral trade organizations
and foreign-owned companies; and
(f) commercial organizations with truly
international status, such as foreign-
owned banks, tourism and sports.
(2) Coordination of CIA relationships with the Usraeli}
(afaison serviced), including provision of headquarters
guidance and support to the;Tel Aviv Station). —
(3) Provision of staff guidance for and coordination of
Directorate operational efforts in the fields of
international economics and energy.
6 ;
SECRET

--- Page 7 ---
14-00000
re * * @. , SECRET @
- ; s _- .* ' ‘
° ; DON 1-1462
DDO NOTICE ORGANIZATION.
NO. 1-1462 29 September 1976

(4) Developing specific scientific and technical
operations ;

(5) Provision of staff guidance for and coordination

of Directorate efforts against international
Communism and the development of specific opera-
tions in this field.

(6) Monitoring the activities of certain foreign
intelligence organizations outside their national
boundaries, in close coordination with the Covert
Action and Cowunterintelligence Staffs.

5. OPERATING DIVISIONS
The Area and Functional Divisions will continue as depicted
in Figure 1, attached. ,
William W. Wells
Deputy Director for Operations
; T ,
SECRET

--- Page 8 ---
.
.f
a
DDO re
on on
.
| , aa
.
poser tcr nny .
. oo.
.
1 oe 7
[EST SG SE ree a nn c  #
Be aN Yet ORE ate
Evaluation-&Program:! a
CAME Nh dy Seas Clandestine Corps
‘Oversight 2-2 eee eee .
STAFFS DVI .
SIONS L
.
un te Coordination’ Staff
st the Tae eta Se
fo) : nN
Set Career eos Retea Se it pate see Ears East eases oes LSE Og PERN Ee R at
Management”, | _2c-GentralCover;. Ue Bast Asia® 1s Near-East & South: “Domestic Collection;
SUS Cee scy ge Eos pe eee es] WE ET ON Se BIE ter Td Gerth ew Bits sede oa BE agi & IVISION: 3: gore:
eS Ete Gee Sepis sees Peete 9 Ta, mde ene as GEG ite, tel, Sere
ais ee | Ecc eitea Se oy ree
Covert Action. .—T— Counterintelligence PS angen = Le aig a
Ke)
pe oreregenge en e _—
Ke sly Gt SESE th et pe es TENT Bae ee Sk ged Mage it ee Sati eae meee et OE A Io ahi esmmareen seargenats oO
“yccintormation:°3|_L_ I <elnternational:e® re ee f
8 S6ryigagm ee eee irom ce Latin Americas: 5 ‘a SovietEastey 23 et
Ss Ee EP PARE Lee Laas Ee Foo ge anak Poe ee EUONean tee : I 8
‘ i 8 SD = Be nse eee sed, o ie =
Ba rad
: I
eee eee a 3 ON
FR ‘on SSeS eae ce ai Nr ia)
FOreIgHT ReSOUIBES :
See ee
ote
