
--- Page 1 ---
‘oa-10069-10077] 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
- wy ,
. ¢) -sae ) * ¢ \ .
. i . . ry: woe
Ble ae aes as ce rn re 27 Noverber 1962
es oe . JL -gubgeets ” Reported Use of Yacht Potomac by Alpha 66
aa <4)": Qa 20-Nov 62 LAFO received an unsolicited telephone call on the
page % a ae listed telephone number. The caller wanted to advise that there was reportedly
Bo eG : stn the harbor at Long Beach a vesse), formerly used vy the late Theodore
Boge LS , i ~~ * ". Roosevelt, called the Potomac. This vessel, according to the informant, was
an | hes SO  pedng used by the Alpha.66 organization. She was believed taking on a carge
Bie fees 3 is of weapons crated as Argentine beef, and destined to leave soon for Seattle.
eee Sf See gc sho" Be added that.a Wes Davis had just signed on as an engincer, and there was
Boe bak Aa =): another character named Cliff Roberts on board. Both were descrited as tcarded
oe Sp as a athe caller refused to identify himself, claiming thet he did not
Bee Ro f°. s)- know whether contact with the Agency would be approved by his employer, and
a ce “further cid not know whether or not the information yas valid or of pnterget J (
Bone ba oe peo ZEDAL, € $5405 - mg Ges ;
een o ie as -3, -In response to a call to ‘the Intelligence Officer, USCG, it was learned
ea “i .) -" thet ther is a vessel, the Potowac, formerly one of the 155' Us0G cutters.
Bg Pe “ Boy gome time.it. had been used by the late F. D. Roosevelt as the presidential
ine | rn ~ “yacht. Later it had been disposed of to the Maryland (State) Fish and Game
“pth | “sal. 4,  °. Commission, and more recently it had been acquired by the Hydra-Capitel, inc.,
Mage ft vs gt WO West Coast Highway, Newport Beach, California (OR 5-1549).
epee Wg gg hy USCG advised further that en investigator for the Los Angeles County
aa : Vip ind te “Prosecutor, De. Le ‘Wheeler, had accepted an assignment (taking leave of absence
eb eb ea to do. so) to bring the -Potomac’.from the Barbados to California. The plan,
Ea Bf aero Boe ees! supposedly, was to make her a floating museum of some sort. On his arrival
ae a3 Ceo oe adn Barbados ,. Wheeler is reported to have found the craft in foul shape, with
Qe 8B reese Mo omly. a. Single engine, operative. He refused the job and returned to Los Angeles.
Rage Nain coe The eraft later, however, did turn up in San Diego in October and was later
Bases. an a SR “gs Eeorphe was moved. back to,San Diego, where it is presently in a shipyard. She
Bees LS gy as eines been’ painted, and’ appears: to be undergoing somg modifications to Lf
dee | Sie \ eee ers ser nulls yoo 2 RS aie Ie eo sD Ane, < | (be Lt A
Be Pa é MERE S Seely be egg SD a/c" The unidentified “infors “(paragraphs 1 and 2), subsequently identified
We LOS [URE 8 es Aset. US Attorndy Bill Spivak vas re-contacted by telephone. It vas
a ae ee ae veo euggested to him that in the.event any more information concerning the Potomac
oo Pee to ‘wy el gu andthe “likelihood of -her «use ’ in any. foreign activity came his way, we would
Be a ae ‘ 2's appreciate another’-call.:.°On this coasting Sptvele volunteered the statement
Rapin RD ee sen es Lo that it was his understanding that the Cliff Roberts he had referred to pre-
Gis po URS cs ow whously had come. from Barbados with the vessel) This was| Spivak' apeirst
High Peo sakhe: >  ) pePerence to Barbados. F200 5 ~O pe
bho Be Rg S356, 5 The above is. for your information only. The sketchiness of the material
Wass mgs caer - presented LAFO as well as the circumstances of its origin militate against its
fe Roo Bee, Cereddbility. As.a consequence, no follow-up is anticipated unless requested,
fe Be EE EE Ee ME ES ae A em) eS mevvcneeasnnn
Be IE gg ge Opetunece c
hb oe poe GA® 7 Bs 1 RETURE SO fia
Bee oe I _ Backgrouna Use ving
Gene ae meee DO Not Reprise
